Speaker 1  0:00  
Economics, because now we have time, and we can even ask different questions, right? We can ask that, what is the fact of a shock now to today, but also maybe five years, two years down the road, three years? Okay, so for example, the typical question that we have seen many examples, is, what is the effect of a change in the federal funds rate on inflation. Can the federal funds really, can the federal reserve really control inflation by playing with monetary policies, right, or quantitative and easing, etc? And you know that I understand just now. But maybe, because we know that things move slowly in macro, maybe we just, even if it doesn't have an immediate effect, it may have an effect in one six months period. So, so for example, we're going to look at this example. This is all data, but forget about the dates, because it doesn't matter. So this is a price of frozen orange juice, okay? And I have the prices. I also have the percentage change in price for a month, so the percentage change is 100 times the first difference of the local price. And I also have FTD, which is the number of freezing degree days during the months. For example, if November has two days with very low temperature below 32 then FTD is two

Speaker 1  1:37  
degree days is two plus seven. So what does it mean? It's two because the difference from 30 is 230, minus 3032, minus 30 is 232. Minus 25 is seven. So these are the number of degrees overall that this month you wear below freezing temperature. Just a measure. Last year we did the electricity project, and it's a similar use, a similar type of measure to measure of heating degree days and cooling degree days is it gives you a sense of it's a way of measuring temperature in a made in a way that makes sense over a longer, shorter, like a weekly or monthly frequency. So here's the data. On the left, you have the actual price index. On the right, you have the percentage change. What do you see? I

Speaker 1  2:47  
this is prices of orange juice and how it changes for monthly data.

Unknown Speaker  2:56  
Anything surprising, anything that you notice?

Unknown Speaker  3:09  
Yeah, so

Speaker 2  3:11  
looking at the chart on the left, I think I can say that. Well, it definitely ends lower when it started. That the price index 2000 is like, was that probably 75 compared to where it started in the 50s, at near 200 and looking at the chart on the right and correspondence with like as it gets close to 2000 it seems like the excuse me If I use the wrong word, but the variance gets smaller almost, yeah.

Speaker 1  3:45  
So you can see the scene here, right. There is the variance of this is big here and smaller here. And you can see the reflected in the similar to what you see in, actually, surprisingly, around the same time right the areas. So maybe here this earlier, so you have the variance of pressure is different, and you can see that the percentage change here, there were larger swings, bigger changes than in the later period.

Speaker 1  4:18  
That would be something to keep in mind, right? There's this change in variance. We have to be careful when we when we do it estimations, because we remember that one of the assumption if we do field an estimate with all s, well, the assumption is almost get a statistic when you see something like this, we do not have homoscedas. This is different, changing variance over time. This is the weather data. So this is the FTD data. And then you can argue, now it's hard to see. They're in two different graphs. Are they are? Are the spikes in the you can argue, right? So if I have below freezing, that means that the oranges get damages, and so I would expect that maybe the production of for that month will be lower. And then the question is, without the terminus parking price, and you can argue that some of the spikes are happening at the same time of the price changes. But it's hard to see from something like this, right? In fact, I would argue that, well, you have a little bit careful, because, in fact, the spikes in the in the weather are higher here than here, when we know here, we saw the smaller changes, barriers in the price changes. But there may still be a correlation between how Coada doesn't spike. So one option would be simple, simple regressions. If I want to regress, I can say the percentage changes in the price, and I regress them on the freezing degree days,

Unknown Speaker  5:57  
and I get this. So

Speaker 1  6:00  
one additional freezing day at time t increase the prices of the makeup. Increase the prices by 0.47% doesn't make sense. Yeah. So you have more. You know, the larger the freeze, freezing day, the deeper the police that are higher changing prices. Now here we have to start Be careful. First of all, this here, in this particular case, the regular the standard error of the bottom, the point 13 is done with the regular standard. The first thing we have to think about it is we discussed before, I think, is with time series, that FTD is a time series, or is serially correlated, and may have some there is some change in some other places, in the change in prices. So I would always recommend to do a hack. We'll see later what happens. But the question more importantly you can ask is, what's the effect of electricity these days over time? Right? This is the immediate impact, but I may have a different effect. So suppose that I say, Okay, now regress on FTD, FTD minus one, FTD minus 23456, right? This is what is called a distributed lags regression, because I have lots of lags. So what happened here? So this is if I raise, if I get cold one. FPD, today, what is the effect on prices today, right? TNT, what will be this? This is if I get you can think about it two ways. You can think this is what effect of the weather, Yes, last month, on the price today, or you can even think about this is what a change in the weather today will cause on prices next month. Because if I write this in thermody plus one, this is T plus one, this is t. So this began, this become the effect of a price changing weather today on the price in two months and so forth. So this coefficient in each leg represent the future change in price due to the shock today, and that's why they estimated the dynamic effect of the weather. And now we can ask a million questions, right? The question is the important question, though, that you have to think in macro the same you do in macro. What do you do if you really want a causal effect, or try to give this coefficient a causal effect? The number one criteria is, is this a well designed experiment, right? And if I want there are some things that I need to be satisfied. Have you guys done, like the different diff or, you know, just many things right or causal effect, whatever. So you have to have like the conditional independent assumption or the parallel trend assumption. Those are all assumptions that are sure that there is some assumption behind that tells you that this change is truly a causal change. Well, the easiest way would be, I can write a randomized control experiment, right? So I fertilize some plots. For example, in this case, I want to look at what effect you fertilize it. I don't fertilize eyes. There's I measure, measure the yield over time, over repeated how to verify, because we need repeatability, and then I have an estimated causal effect in year one, year two, et cetera. Now, what is the problem with this? Is this is great if I can do it, but most of the time we don't have disruption in economics, right? For example, we have only one US orange juice market. I cannot replicate it over many US origin markets. I cannot randomly assign the FTD certain amount and no other months, right? I cannot measure the average across. This subject. So how can we call this a causal, dynamic effect? We're going to think we have to change the mindset a little bit. We're going to think that if the weather is done randomly enough, and is not influenced by the oranges themselves. So as long I can claim that the right hand variable is exogenous, so I have it nothing control the weather. Right the price at the market prices don't control the weather. I can think the FTD is randomly assigned each time. So now, instead of individual to which I randomly assign the treatment, I have my time and I randomly assign the treatment two different time. I have an outcome variable that is going to be the percentage times that I have one per each t. Now, the the population now is the same object, the origins by a different type dates. Now these different subjects at each time, I'm going to have to give some assumptions. One is that they're they're drawn from the same distribution, the same way you do with units when you do a treatment, right in a sense. Well, the equivalent of that assumption is that x and t, x and t and Y t are stationary, then, if this is satisfying and give you the formula definite assumption, then the regression of y and x and this length give me some sort of dynamic effect. So we're not doing a our experiment is a little bit different, because we went one unit, but likely is one unit over time. So this regression by beta one. So I have y on XT and y i have an input effect, and then I have what is called a dynamic multiplier. That is beta one, sorry. Beta two, beta three, beta p is the effect of change in xt minus one on a y t holding constant everything else, if you want to see the other way, is the factor change in X t on y t plus one. You can also compute the column at commodity industry prior, which is when you add beta one plus beta two. Beta three is the accumulated effect of a change in x, y.

Unknown Speaker  12:27  
Now what is the key here?

Speaker 1  12:31  
Is that, when we think about this, to be able to say it's causal, I have x t to be exogenous.

Unknown Speaker  12:39  
You remember what exogenaty means. It's not inside.

Speaker 1  12:49  
It's hard to explain why. It's almost easy mathematically, right? Because mathematically why you can say so. Strictness of genetic means that the expectation of your error term in your equation, given all the right hand variable equal to zero. In your case, in linear regression, ey, given x is equal to zero. So your expectations wise, you don't expect this doesn't change you what you have for different exits. This is strict exogeneity. Now for us, is not just enough to say a position, when you give an X, I need given x and all This past and future x's,

Speaker 1  13:39  
this is very strict. And this is, this is a little strict. Or you can say, in a weaker term, you say that the correlation between each and XD and xt minus one. If I can argue that x is exogenous, and this is the key, we're going to spend a lot of time thinking about it. What is the x we're interested in, and is it exogenous? Then by doing this dynamic regression, you end up with some causal two dynamic multiplying and this dynamic causal effect. Let's go through the let me give you the visual and then assumption, and then start thinking about it more carefully. So first is, UT has to be exogenous.

Unknown Speaker  14:34  
Y and X have stationary.

Speaker 1  14:37  
This is, this is extremely important. B You want XT and yt, because now their pair divulge over time and they relax, because there is serial correlation. Here you want them, you cannot argue that independent, but you want this dependence to die out eventually, so they cannot be super, super dependent. Has to be weakly dependent. As j becomes very large, it's basically zero. This is say that you are acknowledged that there is some serial correlations and dependence, but eventually that will die out. It doesn't stay forever. Now Y and X have eight non zero, finite moments. This is a lot of moments requirements, so they have to have some distribution that have high moments, which is much higher than we usually have, and use also the stock. So they're not different than what you had before, but it's a little bit extra, right? So this you have more moments, because we're going to estimate the we'll talk in a second the standard error are going to be more complicated. And now you have this before in the econometric you write this where IID was enough, right? Identically independent, distributed. Now we assume that they're not really independent. We know they're not independent, but they're not super dependent, either. They're not really identically distributed, but they're stationary. They evolve in a way that is stable over time. So they're just some more

Speaker 1  16:19  
complicated the first of all, we know why, right? Without stationarity, we cannot do anything. The second one is not something that we have talked about very much, but, and I don't know, maybe we'll, I'll give you an example of why that's important. It's relevant because one of the IID assumption in linear regression is used to be able to compute distribution of those estimator and to use the central limit theorem, and then you get normality. Here, we're going to also end up using a version of the central limit theorem, but it's much more complicated. I'm not going to show you making the proof, but to do with that, to be able to apply you need to have this dependence that is some temporal distance.

Speaker 1  17:12  
Under this assumption, I can estimate this by the rest. I can have my estimator is going to be normal. I just have to be a little bit careful about the standard errors, because now I have zero correlation by design, is a zero correct. So what do we do? Well, we're just going to have whatever Python has kind of known as hack or robust or something. But you know? Have you ever heard of a boss on the era? Yeah, what is the

Unknown Speaker  17:52  
Python command for that?

Unknown Speaker  17:57  
Just make sure that you know what the right is. And is

Speaker 1  18:05  
just called Hack standard error. So let me give you an idea why you need that. Okay, because I think it's important that you understand. I'm not gonna ask you to know this, but I think it's important that you know a little bit of it, have an intuition on this. So let's suppose I have just a simple regression, y max. What is it? What is the formula for beta one? Is this? Right? Is the average x, c minus F, R, Y, T minus Y, bar, x, c minus the variance. So, what is the variance of this? If you remember the formula is this should be u, d, you right? Is basically the variance of the errors divided by the variance of x. So

Speaker 1  19:04  
okay, what is, what is the variance of this? Error terms? I

Speaker 1  19:35  
What? So, what is the key here? So, actually, yeah, so we have to be very careful. So let's think about it. So these just could be here, right? So I have this. It's a sum of those error terms. So if I want to look over as the values of a sum, suppose that t is equal to two. The values of a sum is. Virus of one everybody.

Speaker 3  20:20  
With me, so it's the variance of the sum is the variance of one plus the variance of the other one, and then two times the covariance of both of them. So I have one over 2v one plus v2

Unknown Speaker  20:42  
i Two every time I have a variance of a sum

Speaker 1  20:47  
variance of x plus y is always the variance of x plus the variance of y plus two times the covariance of x and y. So and you can find this by applying the definition of variance. Now this also tells you that if x and y are independent, then these terms are zero. So for two unknown by very independent, the values of the sum is the sum of the variances. But if they're not independent, you have this extra piece.

Unknown Speaker  21:34  
So what is this is and

Speaker 1  21:38  
now we have to remember that we have this one half here. What happened to the one half when I have the variance? This is 1/4

Unknown Speaker  21:53  
remember this?

Speaker 1  21:59  
What are the property of the variance operator? Variance of a times x is equal to a squared times the variance of x. So if I have the variance of a half times x plus y, this is going to be 1/4 the variance of X. Sub x plus 1/4 the variance of y plus 1/4 times two covariance of X. Let's

Speaker 1  22:52  
go back to b1 and b2 so I stick to the same.

Speaker 1  23:02  
I now this is our the same variable, right adjust at different times. So what is the variance of v1 so it's 1/4 sigma square v plus 1/4 what is the virus of this is, this is time, right? T is one or two. What is the virus of B at a different time? If it's stationary, is still going to be sigma squared b plus one and a half, and I have sigma v1 v2

Speaker 1  23:49  
so this is equal to a half, sigma square v plus a half. I can also write this in terms of the correlation. So it's the correlation times x, x v1,

Unknown Speaker  24:04  
sigma v1, sigma v,

Speaker 1  24:09  
because the correlation is equal to the covariance divided by the square

Unknown Speaker  24:18  
roots, which are the same. So I actually,

Speaker 1  24:29  
okay, so I have, I'm here, everybody with me. You can already see there. But so what does it tell me? Right? What would you do before, when you were computing in Coada metrics, how were you computing the bias of B you were just looking at this piece. Now we have this extra piece. Now if the two i. Errors are now serial correlated. This piece is not here, and you're back to square one, but if the two errors are serial correlated, you have to take into account this extra piece when you compute the variance of x, sorry, the variance of your estimator. So traditionally, cross sections, you have to worry about this because the data is mostly correlated in time series. You have to think out of my error, serial correlated or not. If they're not, you're good. But if they are, you have to use the correction, which is the calc estimate that corrects for this. I makes sense. This is just an intuition. Now, how do we know if the errors are sitting correlated or not? Well, one option is you look at them. You maybe compute the correlogram of them, and if they don't look what knows it you're means you're not. And what does it mean? Is like, Well, we said we learned something else. Last class is I would just add enough lag until the errors are CR and non serial correlated. So if you add enough lags, this does not become an issue

Unknown Speaker  26:13  
of x or and or y.

Speaker 1  26:18  
This said the cost of using hack is very little, and it protects you against the possibility of cereal correlation, and also hack, in particular, because of the H stands for electrochesticity, also protects you against the possibility. So it's a good habit, in my opinion, to always use hack regardless. It's too important to make, especially when you start talking about causality, it's too important to make the right conclusion about whether a coefficient is significant or not, and that requires you to have the right standard error to be able to do that make sense.

Speaker 2  27:03  
Yes, yeah, that makes sense to what understanding there seems to be like no downside, including, heck,

Speaker 1  27:11  
no, no, it's a there are some downsides that, especially for small sample. I'm not going to go into detail how the hack estimation works and and the most computer make choice. There are parameter behind the estimation. There are choices of the because it's done with the non parametric design, which shows there's an icon parameter involved in the estimation of this, that is the benefit, and the zapping parameter is chosen by Python, by Stata, but automatically for you. And it's not a bad choice, but your estimator will depend on that choice. It just that is behind the scene. You don't see it, so it's possible that, especially for a small sample, that estimated standard error may be not very precisely estimated, and that cascade all the way down, but I don't know. Sometimes, like, what is the worst of the two? I would say, if you're absolutely sure it looks like your error, I'm not heteroskedasticity. I'm not crated. Just go ahead and use normal thunder error. Why you have to be pretty damn sure. If there's any doubt, use hack, you're right. I think right now the consensus are most people should just put hack as

Speaker 1  28:40  
I suggest you have

Speaker 1  28:52  
to see the most common, which is the new Midwest, is this one. So you estimate this alpha covariance that I gave you before, and then you to compute the extra piece, right? That was the extra piece. In our surprise, use some sort of like average, weighted average of this autocorrelation function. But you have to choose first. You have to choose how to weight them and how many of them to compute. And so this is the accurate parameter that I was taking. This is a choice behind it. It is this truncation parameter. And so people use this. This is an automatic selection. I don't

Unknown Speaker  29:30  
want to go too much into this, but if you're interested or

Speaker 1  29:38  
so, let's look at some results. So this is a stage. This is all slides. This is theta, but it looks so much like Python. So l1, FTD is the lag one of order one. So I'm regressing here. I'm regressing changes in prices today. On the freezing degree days last month, okay, and I have a coefficient of point 15 with the standard error of 0.76

Unknown Speaker  30:20  
and a p value, point 04, so how do I interpret this now?

Speaker 1  30:29  
If I do now, let's do, how do I do this? Okay, the coefficient tells me that, if I for each increase in the prisoner these days today, the prices of oranges to next month will go up by zero point 15% okay. Now, if I did in this case, if I do new request, I end up with the hack. I end up with this value. For this particular case. It makes no much difference, unless you're very strict about your P value, which case you're crossing. But I will be caution of making strong decision between 0.4745 but this scenario has not changed by much. This is sometimes it does, sometimes it doesn't, okay.

Speaker 1  31:32  
So how do I introduce hack when I submit a regressive or make a distributed lag models? Probably not, but be careful. What do I say? Probably not again. If you have enough lags on the right hand side, then you don't need it again. If you're serial correlated, you're sure don't use it. But if there's any serial correlation, you're not exploited. Exploit it, then you need to use it. Now. Let's talk about the right environment, right we have freezing degrees days. Is that exogenous for these questions? One way to think, if you want endogeneity in endogeneities, think about feedbacks. Would the price of oiled oranges change the priest degree days? The priest degree days is probably one of the things we can assume that is probably exogenous. I right?

Speaker 1  32:48  
So the question is, if I want to use an entire dynamic multiplier, now go back to the X ray regression. I thought it was your first slider. So let's go back to the idea of dynamic multiplier. I have this regression. The first charge that I have to say, Okay, first of all, I want to know, what do these degree days today affect? How does it affect price contemporaneously, and then one month later, two months later, three months later, etc. So now I have to decide how many light to include here.

Unknown Speaker  33:24  
How many you include?

Speaker 1  33:27  
818, 16. That's the choice. That's a specification choice, like, if you look at this, m using the in the hack, correlation would be seven. Why? You have to think about it. What is it? Maybe you include them, and then when they're not significant, you stop. Those are important questions that you have to ask every time you do a modeling.

Unknown Speaker  33:48  
So if I do this,

Speaker 1  33:52  
I can, I can compute it like in this case, what if they do? They do it like 18

Unknown Speaker  34:00  
likes. Why? Who knows.

Unknown Speaker  34:03  
So, what do they find? This is the

Unknown Speaker  34:09  
dynamic multiplier. I

Speaker 1  34:26  
Okay, so this is the dynamic multiply, simple, so it's coefficient in the black, 0123456, here's when I use. This is the cumulative. So it's 50. This is, this is five, zero plus 0.17501707 and so forth. You sum them a lot. These are different choices for the standard error. They don't make much difference. So difficult things that you will see is. You're going to have graphs like this. This is what later we're also going to call the input response function. The input response function on the Nano multiplier tells you how does

Unknown Speaker  35:15  
a shock today

Speaker 1  35:18  
affect a shock on the variable of interest on the right? Which is the right hand side, affect the left hand side over time. So this is going to be the lags. This is you basically observe, find exactly what we had. So on the table, you plot them, and you're going to put a plot. And then these are going to be completed intervals done at each point in time. And then you end up with these figures. And now you read the figures and interpret it. What does this figure tells you?

Unknown Speaker  36:01  
How would you read this? Or what do you see here?

Speaker 4  36:14  
Yes, that as time goes on, the impact of the shock gets smaller,

Speaker 1  36:22  
which is a good thing, right? You would expect it how much? How long does it take for a shock to the fact to disappear?

Unknown Speaker  36:35  
Well, six, it doesn't really cross the like zero at 95 like you can't be really super sure until like 13 months. But like you can be pretty

Unknown Speaker  36:58  
sure six months. You think anybody else, I would say around six or seven months,

Unknown Speaker  37:05  
yeah, anybody?

Speaker 1  37:09  
Well, you have to be careful. What does it mean here? It could be down there, right? I mean here, so you will see when you start going multivaria. This is even trickier, because computing does compete in the interval is not easy, especially when we go to multivariate. But technically, it depends on how you want to read this, right? If you want to say, Okay, I see that the line goes down and pretty close to zero and six or seven, this is one way to read it. If you read the confident Well, technically, what the confident inter tells you is like, our impact is different than zero, our one is different than zero. Is it different than 02?

Unknown Speaker  37:56  
How do you read those confident intervals?

Speaker 1  38:01  
If the company interval, which is between this and this contains zero, so the complete interval is probably doing so the value here was 0.3 was 0.07 so 0.7% but the complete interest probably at 1.9 to minus point 04 if they continue to contain zero technically, if you believe your specification, if you believe your statistics, if you believe your analogy, if you believe your property, that tells you that at Two, that effect is not statistically different than zero. And so what n is not a three, four. All this tells me that from two on, this effect is not statistically different even at one, no, because, well maybe yeah, so even on one, technically, I will be giving a little bit only way, but you're right, if I want to straight, even a one may not be, but I think here is close enough. I would be a little bit wary, but this is like, and these are 95% confident interval. We will say that oftentimes, in multivaria analysis this kind you actually report smaller companies. You report like 68% just because there's so much uncertainty.

Unknown Speaker  39:32  
Yeah, technically five, even 168, so wouldn't the range be higher?

Unknown Speaker  39:40  
68% of companies? Doesn't contain the truth only 68% of transfer.

Speaker 1  39:52  
If I do them the commodity multiplier, then I get this tells you how the commodity short i. A persistent fact on the law. So this is that, so you have to be careful. Good question, what is this? This was the effect on the percentage

Unknown Speaker  40:18  
log prices. What does it mean? This is the fact on what because

Speaker 1  40:27  
we have to be careful here, our regression has this variable on the left hand side.

Speaker 1  40:40  
So let's look at the simple version. So let's say I have delta yt is equal to beta one, Xt plus beta two, xt minus one plus this is when I have only two. But on the left hand side, I have a difference. I have d equal to zero, t equal to 1d, equal to two. I have a shock today, and this is the effect on Delta YT.

Unknown Speaker  41:21  
So today,

Speaker 1  41:26  
my effect is a shock. XT on Delta. Yt is beta one. Let's add another one.

Speaker 1  41:40  
Why is the shot last month or the shot today to next month? The fact is better. The shot today on Delta YT from two months is better.

Unknown Speaker  41:57  
This is the fact of Delta YT.

Unknown Speaker  42:01  
What if I want the effect on YT, which is

Speaker 1  42:07  
delta YT plus yt minus

Unknown Speaker  42:17  
one? Delta yt is yt minus yt

Unknown Speaker  42:21  
minus one. So y t is delta y t plus one?

Speaker 1  42:29  
Okay, let's start here, here. Well, let's assume that before the shock didn't even happen before it's only happened today. So I'm going to ignore this. So this is going to be by beta one. Or what happened here, the effect on YT is the effect on Delta YT beta two plus

Unknown Speaker  42:55  
one was the effect on yt minus one, which is beta one.

Unknown Speaker  43:00  
The effect on delta y

Speaker 1  43:03  
y t times t is going to be the effect on delta Y t is beta three plus the fact the previous figure, which is beta two plus beta one and so forth. You guys follow me. So if your latent variable is the first difference, if you just do look at the coefficient, they're going to give you the dynamic multiplier on the first difference. So in this case, is going to be the effect of FTD on the price change. But if I want the effect of FTD on the price I have to do the commodity

Speaker 1  43:49  
multiplier. Okay, so this tells you that if I want so this was the price change on the effect of the freezing on the price changes. This is the effect on prices. So freeze today as effect on prices, that is this is the same as impact is the same. But then it goes up, goes up, goes up, goes up, until it goes down. So the effect on prices last for about a year. This is the effect of freezing day today, over time on prices, the level of prices, and you can see that has a very strong, permanent effect for a long time.

Speaker 1  44:42  
Okay? Questions we are always at. Now, if you in your left hand side, you don't have the difference. You have a level, then the dynamic multiplied doesn't really mean.

Speaker 1  45:00  
Now you can also do things like you can do this exercise for different time periods. So for example, here, this is the dynamic multiplier. Goes six into the 80s, from the 80s 2000 and from the fifth into 1966 and you can see that the effect was much more persistent in the early period than it is in the later period,

Unknown Speaker  45:22  
which is what we are seeing

Speaker 1  45:30  
questions. So we're going to call this in response function later on, you can call it

Unknown Speaker  45:38  
now, let's talk about exogeneity a little bit, because it's super

Speaker 1  45:43  
important is it's FTD exogenous.

Unknown Speaker  45:53  
In this case, is easy to stay right,

Speaker 1  46:01  
but then, okay, fine, but then when you start thinking about other variables, it becomes a little bit more tricky. Examples, suppose that I want to have y is the EU export and x is the US GDP. Does the US GDP have a causal effect on EU exports, then you have to think about it. Is there? Can there be a feedback back to this us, GDP, exogenous questionnaire has been used so much in the literature in macro, does the percentile change in world oil prices affect the rate of inflation. What is the causal relationship between oil prices and inflation? And here you have to think about it. What is x? Okay, so, and we can think for a second. For example, sometimes I want to say, what is the effect of oil prices on the of oil prices on inflation? Well, I have to be Think carefully. If I put straight, if I on the right hand side I just put oil prices, then not all of them will be exogenous, because you know that as prices go up, maybe all prices go up. So oil prices themselves are not exogenous. But then we can start thinking about the same way you think about in micro. You think about situations where your intervention are really exogenous. You can think here. So for example, people spend a lot of time creating data set that measure truly exogenous changes in oil prices only. They remove every any endogenous changes by person. For example, looking at changing in all prices due

Unknown Speaker  47:53  
to wars in the Middle Middle East.

Unknown Speaker  47:57  
Or they look at, for example, of

Speaker 1  48:03  
for inflate, for federal funds rates for monetary policy inflation. There's a lot of research done to compute measure of monetary policy shock that is exogenous. For example, you can think, and here, if you get them up with an idea, you have a paper. But for example, you can think, okay, how? Because sometimes the Fed change make monetary policy decision that is itself based on the economy, economic situation. So you cannot expect that all the Fed decision are exogenous. In fact, mostly they're not. But there is a component of that that is a surprise, and that is truly exogenous. But how do I measure is the change that feta tells me I go from a lower but a quarter point, that's not the surprise that's expected. Everybody expected that, right? And they're reacting to unemployment and what they see. So how do I capture the surprise? Well, there are many ways you can do it. One, for example, as you people do, is look at little, tiny print over time, around the policy announcement, and they look at high frequency, what the market thinks, like futures and some, some other financial variable, how they move. They move like they receive a surprise. What is the component of that? That was maybe everybody thought that the Fed will lower interest rate. Maybe no, but that much, and that's usually shows by yield curve and

Unknown Speaker  49:32  
the effect of the market.

Unknown Speaker  49:35  
Oil prices effect around the world,

Speaker 1  49:39  
government spending by looking at the spending around wars in the past. So there are way in which you can think of creating the data that is too exogenous, but being very creative alternative, you can apply some of the all the more. More modern macro, you can think of applying some of the things that you learn in micro to this, by propensity score, by conditioning on covariates and etc. So there are ways that you can think of

Speaker 1  50:25  
Okay, so we're going to have to think about exogeneity a lot, and you have to think about especially when we're going to pick this up again, when we think about VRS in this model here, another thing is that it was not probably including this regression that I would have done if I was them, is, what is another variable that is more plausible to include here probably will be a length of the price in itself. Maybe the prices by themselves are later correlated. They move fully because it's not so easy to change the prices on the market. Cannot change

Unknown Speaker  51:05  
it. So that would be something possible.

Speaker 1  51:14  
And we will pick up again. This one we do. We have back outer gasses, so this same auto removal in a vector form when we are multi variable at the same time. And the other questions are going to be become even more important. But this is, in general, a tricky question to ask in terms of that is even harder than You might and

Unknown Speaker  51:40  
that's the summary for today. Questions. Yeah,

Speaker 1  52:20  
on. I don't have anything else for today, so I don't know. We can finish early, or we can look at the case study and talk about it. We can look at what's coming next. You have, you do have a homework due next week? You

Speaker 1  53:09  
Yeah, that's a great hope. So give yourself enough time, no math, but give yourself enough time to do it. So

Speaker 1  53:23  
and then after the kickoff project, we're going to talk about forecasting

Speaker 3  53:30  
coming up that's in a few weeks. Yes, in two weeks?

Speaker 1  53:41  
Yeah, this is so I have some practice problem here for you. Now. Keep in mind these are, this is not exactly how it's gonna look, because these are my old problem set for from my upper like senior class that I was teaching three years ago, but the reader is going to be a mix of theoretical questions, and probably I'm not going to ask you to code in class, because I think we don't have enough time in our 15 but it's going to be more similar to that where I may give you an output. So I'll give you already the result that you will get if you code, put the data in, graph it and do so. I'll give you the steps for you to take. I haven't decided.

Speaker 3  54:36  
Do you think that the best way to prepare for the midterm is to go over the slides, or to go over the problem sets, do

Speaker 1  54:46  
the slides, if you follow along, you probably okay to solve the problem set and do the practice process.

Speaker 5  54:53  
So when you say that, you would give us like an output of the result that we get if we were to code it like. What kind of a question would that look like this? So I'll

Speaker 1  55:08  
give you an output, okay, yeah, and I'll tell you, tell me something. I'll give you a graph. Tell me what you

Unknown Speaker  55:14  
Oh, I see there's a

Unknown Speaker  55:17  
difference. Like, okay,

Speaker 1  55:19  
so they look a little different by the same so this one is going to be the data relation function.

Unknown Speaker  55:25  
Okay, yeah.

Speaker 1  55:26  
But you know, these are the dummy variables, so I'll give you things like that.

Speaker 5  55:31  
Okay, so, like, nothing really to do with the code, necessarily, but like, similar to the problem sets, as in, like, how we would interpret the output,

Speaker 1  55:40  
I think so okay, because I haven't, I don't think we'll have enough fun. I don't want to give you something, because if I give you the code like or give you the data, I don't know how fast you are at coding. I'm not super fast, and so I don't I don't care that you you find yourself here with 30 minutes to do these problems, pulling up AI, asking them to do the coding for you. It doesn't matter, so I'll just give you the output itself, and I hear more about the interpretation, and you will be graded on the coding in the lab, part of the grading this class. So that I'm not here to test out who you are including. I'm here to test how well you understood what we have discussed. So in a sense, this, take this practice problem a little bit at heart, just be aware that I didn't I didn't redo them all. These are all tests. I was using reviews at that time, so it looks a little different, but it's the same exact things that you've done. It just the output is and the graph. And then some of the theory questions I'm going to have one theory questions, some of that you will have in your product sense. And then you have basically three problem sets before the return.

Unknown Speaker  57:22  
This Okay, this one's not cute, okay.

Speaker 1  57:28  
I was like, which paper is this? We'll see if we get we probably want to have time to read and discuss

Unknown Speaker  57:37  
a paper by medicine. So, yeah,

Speaker 1  57:42  
this makes sense. I think if you do the problem set, okay,

Speaker 1  57:59  
read the project description, the scope, because if you see here, I'll probably have one more problem set. I don't even know if I'm

Unknown Speaker  58:14  
going to do this problem set, so problem set

Speaker 1  58:21  
will start twinkle. I'm not proper sets, but then you're going to start reading your presentation. And April now is very early. I

Unknown Speaker  58:44  
Why do we pick with online? Or do I.

