What object is, then you have to think we're going to talk for us. For this class is mostly going to be the time series itself. But just remember that you have other options, and there are other techniques. And if you ever need to do something else, let me know, and I'll show you, and I give you a brief video how to do it. The information sex, basically, is all the information that you have at the time you forecast. You want to know what the quantity part of the data, and then in particular, right? So we're going to talk about this there, but in the information that you have at the time to forecast, and depending on my step ahead, how do you account for uncertainty, right? And all that, our model are just estimated. And so how do we account for that? Some models may be good for something and bad for something else, it really depends, and you have to keep a lot into account. Then we're going to talk about the forecast horizon, which we're going to call H, H for horizon year. Disappear every year. So the horizon is age. So when h equals to one is going to be one watt. That's why people need them. Will be one month, 12 month, right? If this quarter is going to be one quarter, and your forecast, you may use different techniques to forecast on a shorter item or longer item. Then we know we have to deal with structural changes. We discuss what the structural changes is. How are you taking to account the structural change? Do you think that things have changed from now to the future? Is covid? A structural change? Is covid just a blip? All these are decisions that you have to make. And then a forecast statement, which is, how do you sell to your executive? So when your presentation, you have to think also who you're talking to, who your audience is. Obviously, what you present to me will be very different to what you present to an executive who may not have the same knowledge that I have. And then are you going? How are you going to say? How do you going to represent the uncertainty in the forecast? Are you going to give just a number? Are you going to be giving a forecast interval? Are you going to be a distribution when you make your scenario? How are you going to consider that actually your forecast is going to have some forecast there? So technically, you'll have a distribution. Then you'll have to think about how you to present the forecast, and we're going to talk a little bit about it. Your photographs, whatever forecast you could charge, you use, is going to depend on what you think your loss function is. We had already this discussion a little bit when we talk about OLS estimation, right? OLS minimizes the sum of squares residuals, sum of square errors. Why that is the design of that estimator. OLS is this? That is the loss factor. You made a decision that that's going to be your loss function. So more here, here, here. Are things that change with time, right? So how accomplished your model being? How far to manage your model, right? For example, now compared to when I did graduate school, now you have a lot more options. I did JavaScript a long time in the 90s, you were not even born, and at that time, neural network had just barely started. So now you have the option, you could do something like a neural network or deep learning, right? That's a really complicated model, but it's also sort of a black box, if you have to explain an executive that you did deep learning or random forest or whatever, you're going to have to you're just going to give an intuition. They're not going to have a model in front of them to understand. That's option one, option two. Some executives prefer that you have a parsimonious model, a small model that still performed well. That is, that can be easily explained. An example, for example, is that when, every time I I, when I was consulting with Southern Company, and they were showing me their their forecasting model, their model was super simple, very simple. They were like all I asked five items. This is for forecast electricity demand, but they have to take how the electricity market works, but they have to bring that in front of the Georgia public Commissioner, and they have to it because he's semi regulated. And so they have to explain it so they for them, being able to explain the model in a way that makes sense to people is very important. And then, of course, you have to think about whatever you are now observed, right? How do you deal with Susana? How you do cycle? How your other function that you may not have included questions. So for us, the horizon is going to be h that is the step ahead. I'm it. We're also going to think about out of sample and pseudo out of sample. Auto sample is truly outstandful. That means that I am on February 2026 and I forecast into the future, and I go, I have no way to know what's going to happen in the future. To my wallet. Forecast is doing in the future. The best thing I can do is to try to do as as much as I can, to test this model previously, and then forecast, and then wait, right sometimes this forecast means you're going to make budget decisions, and that's going to be and then, if you miss forecast and mispredict, then you better know how to justify it, but you have no way other than how to know that is to know what just wait. Pseudo would be what you can do, maybe to test this one, for example, what I could do is I could do, I could use my data between 1970 to 2024 12, then I use only the information. I pretend I'm in 2024 so I use no information. Pertain to 2025 that means that you use no data here. You do nothing to help yourself. I am stopping here. Then I forecast. We're going to call this t plus h, because this I'm here T big T plus H. You want to use only the data to T 24 and now you do have the data, because you do have actual data for 2025 and then you can pretend, and you see actually what all your model would have done. But they said, if you'd want to do this has to be done fair non information for 2020, past, 2024 24 and you only use the information past 2024 to compare and see how you test. That's why it's called pseudo, because you do actually have you can also be doing now casting. Who knows what now casting is. Have you ever heard about how do you say now casting now, this is perfect, is when you want to forecast now. For example, you may have you may want to forecast GDP now, but GDP does not come out until the end of the quarter, so you're trying to forecast what's happening right now before the actual release come out. And in fact, we know that even if the read the feature numbers come out, they're always corrected, right? So even even what comes out, sometimes I actually use what comes out to now cast, because I know for a fact that probably that is going to be revised anyway. So the checkpoint understanding is this how I guess, like firms project earnings before, like the quarterly release? I guess so. I'm not sure. Okay. I think that is more a, I think, with the same project, yeah, in a sense, but I think in that case, I don't know if I would call it now casting, but it's more of a short prediction, okay, because they're still projecting. I think now casting really has more to do with using because when you do projection, you say, Okay, I'm here, and I'm going to tell you what I'm going to be at the end of the board, for example. Now casting, really, I'm here. I observe everything up to here, and I'm going to predict here. Now, I don't try to predict the next quarter. Now, castings, I still want to predict where I'm not adjust that. I'm going to use what's available right now to fill the gap for the data that I don't have. Make sense the difference, yeah, that makes sense. Well, why I can use all the data and that maybe you can use them to do some in a sense you may be now casting precede your your quarterly projections, but the projection is still means this is what I expect to be at the end of quarter, which is the future. By casting is when you go back. I guess again, I think has to do with, I don't really know about casting is, but I think it's again, you go back and fill the missing pieces. Say you want, you have, you want monthly frequency for GPP port or something like that, you just go back. I'm a little confused, still confused from what now casting was. So now is for now, right? So you I'm not going to predict next month. I want to predict this month. So if I think about predicting next month and month after that, that is forecasting, and I'm going to go into for future, now is I want to predict the now, but for something for which I don't have data. So if I want to predict what GDP is now, and GDP only comes out at once a quarter, that would be one situations where I want to predict the now, and the techniques are slightly different, because, in a sense, if you think about it here for forecasting, I'm going to use all the information, and I'm going to try to project it in future. Here, you say I have this, this and this, but I have a hole right here on this data, and I'm going to try to fill that hole for now. Then you can do point forecast. That means you're just forecasting one specific point that time series. But you also use you can do density right because you have to remember that once I use my estimator model to forecast, my estimated model has uncertainty, all the parameters have uncertainty, so my forecast is just also an estimate, and therefore there's going to be uncertainty around that as well. So in a sense, I could put the cost the same way your estimator have a distribution your forecast that can cut a distribution. So you can say you can predict the mean of that distribution, or you can give a whole sense of the entire distribution. When they do like the fan chart for interest rate, I don't know if you ever seen the UK fan chart, then they have a whole distribution in that sense. I think that when I don't know enough about stress testing. You guys know by me a lot more than already, if you read that paper. But if I want to forecast scenario, for example, right? If I want to know the way I think about it, suppose I want to see what happened, I have a forecast, but I don't if I have a forecast of what the even what weather is going to do, I have two options. One is I think about what the average weather is going to be next year. Or I think also about what is the possible worst case scenario and best case scenario. So that, in a sense, gives you a range. And the range is this is given by whatever you learn about the distribution of that data. The same thing when you do buying, stress testing, right? What is the good possible scenario of things going well? What is the worst possible scenario when everybody wants their money back at the same time, right? Or the or the or the mortgage of the housing bubble explode, or the mortgage, so that you need to have a sense of the range of fossil forecast, so you can think that in terms of density forecast, what is the difference between density and interval? By the interval giving me the best and the worst, when I put the density, tells me the that, what is the probability that I ever going to end up in the best or ever in the worst? And for a man, you might want to have the probability. What's the probability that something's going to happen? What is the probability that the fan will lower this rate or higher or increase? Okay, so the difference between the density forecast and interval forecast is that the density forecast gives us kind of like the probability that you either end up in the best case or the worst case scenario. And the interval forecast is just the range, like, what is the best and worst case scenario? Yeah, in a sense, you know, the density, not just here, the density with the product that I'm here I see, probably your average, the mean is going to be like, it probability, or you can even do like, I'm going to be here with this probability. I'm going gonna be here with this probability, and therefore you can pay, you can do all sorts of game of of so it's like this scenario design the probability of ending anywhere between the best and worst possible cases. Okay. I because if you're not using a computer for Technos, please close it. I can tell when you're not taking notes. Oh. Okay, can you go back? Yes, thank you. So we're gonna the notation here is going to be messy, because everybody uses sort of like a different notation. So let's first talk about Y is our series. This is a very general notation first, and then I'll give you a more precise y hat, which you know, we use what have for the fitted values. The fitted value, in a sense, are in sample forecasts. Okay, so you can have out of sample soon, out of sample, but you also have in sample, that is what the fitted value are, which is where, what the modeling will predict you will be at that point in time, and then you're going to have a forecast error, which we're going to talk a little bit about it, and it's going to be relevant to determine for discuss error tells you how far you are from the forecast. And now the question is, what I have to decide? How to do this, how to choose my forecast. The data is the data. This is my forecast. I have my errors, my loss function is going to be some sub factor of P, and we have to think about which loss function makes sense. This is like a more general thing. So first of all, the first it makes sense that if I have zero error, I have a zero loss. So it's going to start with zero. Better be continuous, because if there's a big jumps all over the place, it's going to be hard for me to know where I'm going. And if two, you have two model that gives you a very similar forecast error, your forecast error should give you the same, about the same. The for the loss should be the same. It's also been increasing right? The higher the arrow, the higher the loss. Now let's think about increasing, increasing in what right do you want a symmetric so that probably most sometimes symmetric will be good ideas, in a sense, that like, well, and we talked about this before, that maybe it's not always the case, but that a big positive and a big Negative are both errors. So in a sense, I want it to be increasing whether it's positive or negative, right? The bigger the arrow, the worse the loss. No matter what is a positive, negative loss, the question is going to be, do I want exactly identical? Because no other restrictions. So the quadratic loss is what you know, it says, I'm going to take my errors, square them, and I'm going to want to minimize somehow, this loss function. So for example, what would be a good loss function? Well, the sum of the square error, that is what OLS does. We talked about it, and what we say, why we like this last square loss functions, we said for two reasons. One is for most of the time is the barriers of approximation. Two is easy to compute and it's mathematical tractable. Why? Because if I want to choose the Y hat, I minimize my loss. This is going to be a quadratic function. So how do I find the minimum of a function? I take the first derivative of set equal to zero, and the first derivative of a quadratic function is linear, and I can solve analytically, a linear function equal to zero, and he has one solution. People like the quadratic loss because of mathematical, very tractable, but doesn't have to be. For example, you can have an absolute loss function, which is like this. They are very different property, right? So, so, for example, that right one is a quadratic I like it because penalize high errors heavily, and so I don't like to make it tells me that I don't like to make big forecast errors, and it's mathematically very easy to do. If I had an absolute value, it would be like this. So you can see there is a different shape. Doesn't go up like this. The error does not marginally increase in its loss then here the rate of the loss function is the same no matter what. So it's just a different loss function. You pay a different cost. But also you can have something the same way we talked about for us when we said, like, well, maybe it doesn't make sense that I penalize my positive and negative error the same way. What is I have a modern way to think about it is something like this lean, lean loss, which actually, for example, could be like this. What does that say? That's saying that I penalize heavily a positive error and I penalize less heavily a negative error. And there are situations where that may be the case, or you can flip it the other way around. You choose. For example, we talked about going to the bus station, forecast at a time, forecasting stops you probably don't want to over you know, you know you don't want to, you don't want to under predictive stock to say the stock goes up. You predicted the stock less. Why you don't want to? You don't want to because you could have invested more if you had a better prediction. Maybe you put a bit more money. But the cost of under predicting is not very high. But if you over predicting and you lose money, the cost is high. So situations where, when you when you make a mistake, on one side, the cost is not so high, and the other side is a lot. Those are situations where you don't want to help people, and which side you have to decide, depending on the situation. I So now, what is the optimal forecast? Optimal not optimal forecast is the forecast with the smallest conditional expected loss. What is this saying? This is not as hard as it looks. This is the expectation. This is the loss function. This is your error. This is elevate. And this is the expectation of elevate. So you say I don't know that the loss is a random variable. How do I minimize it? Where one option will be? I'm gonna minimize the expected loss, and I'm gonna find when you minimize it over your you find your your forecast that minimizes that what is it should be optimal. You error. If you have a quadratic loss, that's what OAS does. OLS minimizes the quadratic loss. So what is the OLS is basically the condition of mean. That's also why people like contracting. You end up something easy to deal. You have something easy to interpret. If you have the absolute value, it will be different. Is the conditional median, which so how do I estimate this or less? How do I estimate this much harder? That's the issue. Why people don't like to do this. If you want to under lean in loss, that is even harder. That's why I was saying we're going to focus on this. This is what's mostly the focus on this. But the more fancy, more modern forecast will probably give us something like this. You okay, now let's look in practice. How do we do this? This is all theory, and we're still going to do theory, but it's going to be a little bit more practical. Let's start with some situations, and from now on, we're only going to worry about quadratic loss, although wanting to keep in back your mind that that's the only options. So if I do quadratic loss, I know that the what minimizes the quadratic loss is the conditional expectations. So that means a linear model for us, because we're in the linear for we're not, actually we're not in the linear model, but you are in the linear model, and in this case, will be something like all of us. So suppose that I have estimated this model. This is the very first model that we estimated in the very first class. Second class. Now some notation. Remember that T is the data, and I assume that goes from one to two to big T. And here you have a million different way to write this. I'm going to think about the auto sample. Look at this auto sample forecast. So I'm going to be at time t, and I'm going to forecast each step ahead. So what I mean is, what is the value of the data at time t plus h? H can be 1012345, now there are many ways to write this. Every book has a different notation. We want to denote that this is not the true data. This is the true data. But if my forecast, I can either write a hat, or sometimes people write F, and then to denote where you're starting from, this is where I am. So I'm going to have my time t, big T. At the end of my sample, I'm going to forecast t plus h, and I'm going to put the or a f. Now if I have this model and I estimate it, what do I have? I have this. I have this. I have this. So what is y, t plus h, hat, comma, T, well, you have to think, what is your best guess for beta zero? You estimate it so your best guess is beta zero. Hat, what is your best guess for beta one, while you estimate it is beta one, one, but now you have t. T varies with time, and I want to know what is T. Remember T is trend is, 12345, by T. And I wonder what happened at t plus h? Well, the good thing is t plus h, because it's deterministic, and I know exactly what it's going to be. It's just going to keep counting. And then what is your best guess for this? This is a zeros. Can you forecast it is below no so my best guess for something that I cannot forecast is always its mean, which, in this case, is zero. So this is your best forecast for a time frame. Super easy. You estimate, you estimate, you plug in what number will be. Now, of this, we can do many things, the audacity forecast, which we're not going to do, but this forecast is going to be distributed as a normal with mean test and bias sigma squared hat, which is that is the forecast error. So whenever I want to compute a confident integral, I can do plus or minus 1.96 is s, hat Y, hat t plus h, t is going to be the confident integral most computers do it. Most programs, it's to do it for you, and we're going to talk a little bit about this forecast. Questions, why is it trend so easy? Well, because it's deterministic. Anything deterministic by definition you can forecast? Well, not we'll talk about stochastic trend. That's the different things, and we have no value. Now, how do I forecast if I have dummy variables? Well, if I have so, suppose that this is monthly data, and suppose that I am in December, and I want to forecast what sales is going to be in January. Once I have estimated the dummies for each month, I know what the coefficients front of January is going to be, so I'm going to have to adjust my photographs, but that coefficient, when I go the next step, I had enough forecast in March. I know what the seasonal I know that I'm going to be in March the following and therefore I can adjust. But whatever I know that's the case. This is I'm making a big deal, but it's actually, you know, you get the gist, right. So the seasonality, I was also using forecast do easily broadcast. Now, there is nothing here. There is no lag here, nothing but now, suppose that I have an autoregressive model. Then things get a little bit more complicated. So let's first define the information set. We're going to call it omega t, if it's big T, which is, what is all the information that I know at time? Big T, the first thing, most reasonable thing to think is that you have everything, all the data. You observe it. If I am time t I observe all of it, as long as I believe and I trust them. And if I have other value where I can also include the other variable, all the past that is known. I don't know the future. Now, and here we think about going back infinite. This is also equivalent to say I can also think about knowing the errors. I don't see them per se. But once I estimated my model, I have the residual does give me those error. So oftentimes, when you think an information set, basically, you want to think about all the past information, whatever that is now based on the information set at time t, we want to forecast in plan H. It turns out that if you have a quadratic loss function, one minimalists is the conditional mean given your information set, you so this can be linear or non linear, but for us, in this model, we're only going to think of linear functions. And basically it tells you that is that we know what the linear function of a path is, is the model that we're seeing, and we're seeing moving averages after regressing a normal model. So this is a big deal to say that if I want to forecast this, and I have my information set, which is this, what is the best model? Is simply an ARMA model estimated by OLS, if it's not a regressive and we didn't go into estimation, but by by conditional likelihood, if it's moving average, It's much easier. So let's look at some cases and honestly, the best way to think about forecasting is this, spend first all the time you have to get the best model you can from what we've learned. Okay, and then once you have the model, write it down, and think about what happens in the future. If you use Python or R or C to forecast, make sure they you know what they're doing. We'll see. In the case of the atma model, the ultra guessing model, there may be a few options, and you need to know what it does. So let's start with I made to just so I have this model. I picked two just because we could be three, one, whatever the epsilon white noise is, supposedly I am at time t, and I want to forecast RT plus h. So let's start with the best thing you can do is consider what is it one step ahead. Let's look at what this model tells me that my model will be at t plus one. Let me write big T plus one, if that was a true model, that's what we say. This is epsilon t plus one plus theta one. Epsilon B T plus theta two, epsilon t minus one. This is what this model. This is the exact model. This will this. Okay, I don't have all this. Why now I have to think about now I'm forecasting. So I'm going to use this model so I don't observe this. But if I could observe, this is if I could observe everything, this is what it will be, a t plus one. Now, now I'm going to have to quote, unquote, guess. What's your best guess for epsilon t plus one? Can you Okay, can you forecast the white noise into the future? No, no. So what's your best guess for this? 00, what is your best guess for theta? One? This is a two parameter. We don't survey, but we have something that is getting pretty close, which is theta hat. I estimate it then now I have, then I'm here. This is a white noise I'm not trying to forecast, because it's white noise. Today is the zeros of my model. I can observe it, so I can actually provide epsilon t hat plus the two, epsilon t minus one. So one, so you one step ahead forecast come straight out of your model. Tell you, tell Python to estimate ma one, take your estimated coefficient, take your estimated zero, the last two residuals that you have, and you have your forecast. You three. Now let's do two. At time t plus two, I have epsilon t plus two plus theta one, epsilon t plus one plus theta two, epsilon t so now I'm forecasting. So what's the forecast of epsilon t plus two zero? Now I have theta one hat. Okay, fine, but times, what is your best forecast? Epsilon t plus one zero. So what am I left with is theta hat, two epsilon hat. T here you have the same without the without the Hat, because I haven't put that and then what happened at three, you can guess T plus 3t, plus 2t, plus one. So what am I left with zero? Now this is a simple model, most likely you're going to have a meaning here. So it's mu plus mu plus Why is there? What? Why a mean from what? Oh, if you have a constant in your regression, that constant is constant. So you can put the what I mean is it doesn't it's not saying that this variable is going to be zero. It means that in the future, you're not going to have any help from the past, and after three steps, your best guess is going to be your estimated mean for that variable. And this is true for any step ahead, other than bigger than two. Why two? Well, we started with Ma two. You can guess that if I had an MA three, I would keep going until I could find an estimator similar you can try. You would end up that for any horizon larger than three, you would have that it would be zero or the mean. This is this is another reason why people are not crazy about moving average. Because we basically tell you that the movie family you can only forecast for a couple step ahead after that. It doesn't tell you more than that, that's another reason why people don't tend to like moving Azure models. Let me Gabriela, now I want to just do this. What is the forecast error? I'm so the forecast error I'm going to know epsilon t plus 1t is going to be the difference between the actual data. Let me do this in theory, so I'm going to take the hat off before you actually estimate it is the difference between the actual data minus the forecast. So it's different this minus this, I have mu minus mu that disappeared. Then I have epsilon 1t, plus one. This, minus this, cancel out. And this minus this cancel out. So you have that your your forecast error is absolutely plus one. So what does it mean that your forecast error One Step Ahead is a white noise is unpredictable. Now what is the forecast error? We can call it actually. I made an impression. We call it E, right? We were calling E to distinguish so. Two. So step one is a white noise. I delete this for a second. I'm going to write 2h. Equal to two. I have equals two is mu plus epsilon, two plus theta one, epsilon plus one plus theta two, epsilon d your forecast, mu plus theta two, epsilon you so your forecast error is going to be What t plus two is, minus this, this, minus this. So what I'm left with mu, minus mu is zero. Now epsilon d, the only one that when I subtract, the only one that cancel out is this. So now I'm left with epsilon t plus two plus theta one, epsilon t plus one. So it. So this is telling me that my first error, two step ahead is a May one. Why? Because this is, this is the look for an A one process. If you do it at t plus, in general, for any H, if you take it for any H, you will end up something like this. That tells you that for any H bigger than those two, the forecast arrow is the moving average. I want to know the values of these things. What is the variance of this? But this is going to be the bias of this, which is a sigma, sigma squared if I want the variance of this, is the variance of this that is one plus theta, one squared, sigma squared, and the value introduces one plus d squared by the squared times sigma squared. So this is how the foreign error balance is. Now, why do I care about all this? I in general, for any maqu you have that the Maq is only forecastable up to Q step ahead, not for more than Q, the forecast error is such that the error is of or is going to look like an MA with h minus one for h less than q, and is equal to exactly Maq for H bigger than Q, and The forecast variance is going to be something like what I showed before. This is okay. This is you need to know these little things. Because why do we always start with the MA? Because we can know that any model can be written as a moving average or anything over so it's always good to learn how what happens with the MA. So now, what are the property or forecast? How do you know if you're doing a good job? First? If your model is truly well done, the forecast error should have mean zero. We agree, because the Y forecast error should not means that means that means you're not systematically overestimated or underestimating. You're going to be, sometimes be above, sometimes below, but on average, you're zero. So if you plug your forecast error, they should have mean zero. They should also be uncorrelated with all your past information and the past error. Because if you have include the past information in an optimal way, you have used everything, and you should not have left anything else there for you to forecast. So you should have the conveyance between your forecast also and your forecast error at time t plus h should equal to zero. Your mean square arrow that usually most programs give you should have some form like this. Doesn't matter, but it's going to be a function of your parameter plus the variance. This is important. This is very important. And this is a mistake that almost everybody makes. I can always write the true data at time t plus h as my forecast plus your forecast error, I keep using different notation here. Let's use this. Let's use this notation. Let me use this notation for a quarter, several e, t, comma, H, or sometimes you will see I do this. A why is this? Because this is the definition of our correct setter, right the forecast error is the actual data minus the forecast. That means that the actual data is equal to the forecast plus whatever I'm making. Okay? So what I can and I know that these two things have to be uncorrelated. This is a good forecast. Those two are uncorrelated. Then. So what is the variance of your data? The variance of your data is going to be the variance of your forecast. You is plus the variance of your forecast error. If this were not accurate, if your forecast is not a good forecast, you would have two times the covariance by definition is it should be zero. You can also see it from here. Take one, for example. You have in your forecast, you have epsilon t plus one, epsilon t x. Epsilon t, epsilon t, minus one. So I can write this. So what does that tell that your forecast? This is a bias, and it's going to be positive, it means that your for the for the virus of your data is always going to be bigger than the virus of Your forecast by definition. So what do people do? Most people their data, they're saying, Oh, I'm gonna plot my data. Suppose that this is your your actual data. You wait and you see what the data happens and what happened the real data. And then you're gonna apply your forecast. And he says, Oh, look, I'm not so close. I'm not doing well. People tend to do this all the time. They plot the actual data and the forecast in the same plot. But what is this tells you, will they ever be exactly on top of to each other? No. And in particular, your forecast will always be a little bit smoother, will always have a little bit less variance of the actual data. Now, if you make, if you make a really tiny error, but remember, what is the virus of the forecast error? The values of the forecasted is this. So it's going to depend on the virus of your epsilon, which you hope is going to be small, but then you're going to have this coefficient, which may or may not be small. So this is never going to be maybe small, hopefully, but it's not necessarily always zero. So oftentimes, plotting the two together, you have to be very careful of how you interpret this graph when you plot them on top of each other, okay? Because by mathematically, they're never going to be exactly identical. Make sense a little bit I'm also because we say that the data is equal to the forecast to the forecast error, if this is normally distributed, if this is normally distributed, that means that this is also normally distributed, and that means that you can construct a confident interval following a normal distribution, or the Python will do it for you. So you just take your forecast. You do 1.2 1.6 times sigma, where you have to estimate your sigma. So I'll skip this okay questions, making any way sense. At the end of the day, this is all theory. Then I just want to make sure you know how to complete a forecast, and if you want to plot your forecast on top of your actual data, you'll be aware that don't expect them to be necessary on top of each other. And don't be upset if they're offset by a little bit because they have different variances. Now, how to estimate with the air one, this is even easier. I What is the data at t plus one? This is going to be V times bar t plus epsilon, t plus one. Notice, write your model, and then you start guessing. I call it guessing. So what is? What is your best estimate for? This is going to be your fee or fee hat, if you don't have it, this one, you observe. This one you don't observe. So you your best guess is zero. Now, if I want t plus two. So what is your forecast? T plus two is p, y, t plus one time, epsilon, t plus two, which is zero. Now the question is, what is this? You don't have it. So you can think of this being fee. You don't have what. You don't observe y t at t plus one. But you have missed your guess. You have, as you forecast, this will be YT plus 1t which is nothing else but five square YT. Shouldn't put a hat on now. This is all exactly so this is all in two value parameters. When we don't observe it, it's going to be, this is this. It's going to be this. Is going to be this. And you can go on right so you have that y, t plus h is is that a squared at the end? Yeah. Okay, so in general, you have that your each step ahead forecast is going to be five, half to the power h, y t, this is one way of thinking, or another way of thinking is to make sure that you know is five YT plus HT is five hot times your previous forecast. You a now, here's, this is, here's what I meant if you this was a pseudo output sample forecast. So you actually have this data while you're playing the game or pretending that you don't when you ask Python to do it, you have to make sure, if you want to do it, because you have to option right here, pseudo sample, you could put the actual data so make sure that it actually does this, and really pretend it doesn't know anything about the future. You if you do an ARMA, it's just a combination of two. But the main thing I want you to remember is basically, when you have your model, when you have estimated your model, just write down what the model is and just think about what you're doing when you're forecast. Look at what the model was a time t look at what the model tells you would be a time difference too. Then when you look at them, anything the accelerators in the future, you cannot forecast anything else either. Here you don't have it, but you can substitute. You bring a forecast, this one, you observe. This one, you observe. You put hat on everything. This is Alma one, one. So a certain point, the moving average component is after h you go to one, it's going to disappear. And you want to only use this before, so you can see how the autoregressive model. People like it more, because actually, you can forecast all very much into the future. See, I'm not going to need to worry too much, similar to what in the before we can construct conflict intervals, and you can construct around your forecaster, Python or whatever you use. Shoemaker should do it for you. Okay, I'll bring some example on Thursday after you have to talk to. So in Thursday, we're going to see how to evaluate your forecast, how good it is. And then the lab, you also construct some forecasts on your lab, so we're still going to meet here, and I'm trying to have some examples. This is my goal, writing, if I have time to make some examples. Do make sure you are ready to talk to Bank of America and let me know if you have any questions. Sounds good? Ready? Have you finished the thank you thing for 725. I had to look back at the previous day, the previous like slides. 725 is a class we're learning GitHub, and it's called 725 Yeah, I think it's called, like, intro to programming for econ. It's got a very long name. I'll read it. I just had this seven under level class, yeah, just Yeah, I don't there's no graduates, economics, computer programming and data management. So that's the one that Marcelo, did you? Yeah? PhD students take classes? Yeah, for the first few years, for the first year you already class, they're full load. And are there, like PhD only classes? So it's based when I teach them serious I teach this class, so I do all the things that I skip with you. I do, I see, I didn't for two years. You just take classes, and then you start doing research. And then, like, is that like a unique to Emory thing, or is that, however, it is most in the US work like this in Europe sometimes is a little bit different. And you start doing research early on, because here, PhD gets stipend they're paid and they're paid centralized by they make a pretty good money, not as much as you get a job. They make $40,000 just to study. We have to, like, pay $40,000 in Europe, oftentimes the PhD are paid by Grant professor. So then you start working right away with that. Jeffrey, go to practice. Do you want to meet in the ridge building? Or you go to like, one of the meeting rooms upstairs, and then try to work on that. Okay, when did you get a chance to look at the repository that yeah, Gabby put together like a really good fact sheet for the data. So do you you were in the same zoom call? Do you together? No, no. Brady and OLIO were just leave Gabriela, I don't want to, is Gabby around, yeah, she's or honestly, maybe we can just start off here. Yeah, okay, I think so I just Yeah, no, no, well, we'll be here and we'll other stuff. Thank you. Bye. Thank God we got, oh, my God, I was, I was gone this week, right, or this weekend. And so I, like, didn't have time to do much work over the weekend. And then I came back, and I was like, looking at my calendar, and I was like, oh shit, no. It's like, so bad. This midterm is in a week. No, literally. And I was just like, we have so much to do, especially even for like, our other classes, other classes, yeah, the thing to, like, submit on Friday, and then I'm like, trying to go to New York this weekend. Wait what they took on Friday, huh? The cause? Yeah, that. So wait what, oh, you mean, like, the the presentation and the write up, yeah, the write up, yeah. But I thought we had to do that already for, yeah, we did that. We did that on Monday. On Monday, we kind of just, like presented it to everyone in class, and then he wants another write up. This is just, yeah, okay, because I saw the assignment on Canvas, so I just did it because I assumed that it was for Monday. Okay, so I just submitted it, like with my presentation because I wasn't in class on Monday, because it was gone, and so I thought it was all due at the same time. But then when I saw it again on Friday, I was like, Oh, do I have to, like, find write up or, okay, okay, because I had already submitted it. I guess maybe he might have changed the due date for because I swear to God, last time I saw it, when I submitted it on canvas last week. It was like, due Monday. So it was like, Oh, I thought all of it was doing Monday. Thank God, it changed, because, yeah, anybody else submitted? But yeah, I was like, There's no way and how, because I, like, literally haven't, like, gone through anything, yeah. So I'm just like, I'm not gonna be able to do this. I like, tried to start with, like, review, and I got halfway through the second PowerPoint, and I was like, yeah, no. I was like, I'm like, a full grown adult. Why am I still, I know I've never looked forward to my freaking graduation the way that I am now. Wait, didn't you say you're, like, trying to get a PhD, like, a while ago, that was kind of the plan. But like, I'm like, I have a job lined up, and I do not, like, this is this last year of school has been so draining. And I'm like, I'm done terrible. I'm seriously done. I like, hate it, especially with, like, working and stuff. I'm just like, yeah, just constantly feel and I feel so embarrassed at work. But I'm like, I gotta leave early to go to class. Like, Oh God. Oh, God, like put together a lot of stuff, I know I Yeah. So she said, if you go into project, slash climate risk loans, and then you go into what is it? I think analysis, latest.md, latest.md That's like, her fact sheet that she put together with, like, the papers and the data that she looked through. She's just really good at, like, making her code work for her. Like, it's incredible that she can code this. Yes, holy shit, yeah. So it's, like, super comprehensive. So I was thinking for today we can kind of take an easy review the data, kind of in depth. Did you get a chance to look at the papers? I did. I only skip, no, honestly, yeah, I did it. I didn't get to actually look at them, like, super in depth. But, like, I did take a look at, like, what they were about and stuff, and maybe we can come up with some preliminary questions, and then we're about coming up with good questions for our Q and A throughout tomorrow and Thursday morning. Perhaps we can keep going. You can also Thursday meet, like, right before class. Yeah, actually, that's a good idea. Let me put that into my calendar. I need to become one of those calendar people. I just like, I'm like, Dude, I can't live without my calendar. That's crazy. I like, it's like, my system works only for me. I'm like, also like, super type a like, like, it's like a freaking disability. Hey, Kim, I'm doing a group meeting right now. Are you about to have to work? Yeah, okay. All right. No, don't be sorry. No, no, class ended, but we're a meeting with my group. Okay, no worries. All right, I'll talk to you. Wait, yeah, can will I be able to touch you while you're at work today? Or no? Yeah, maybe I'll call you on navigating plans. All right, I'll talk to you later. Love you. Hang up on four hands. Yeah? I I did she use, like Claude for all of this? Yeah, she's like a wiz with Claude. No, but it's great that her company's paying for it. 100% bro. Brianna says that she has a conflict with March 3. She won't give two midterms, so we have degree on a date. Should we do that? Like March 5? Then, sorry, I suggest you just iterate through it or by. 
