I don't know what I'm trying to estimate, right? This is a simple linear regression model. We don't have issues with big data. We only have four expository variables. No need for any fancy techniques. So if I do, let's start with one variable, the square footage, and what does this quantity represent? So usually we say, pick a linear model. In this case, why do we pick linear models? Because it's easier to interpret. The most incubated thing is easy now, and the truth is there's more technical reasons behind that. This is actually a very good approximation for most hyper nonlinearity, unless it's linear. Is very complex linear model can get along so so you have your you're going to the independent variable. You have independent value, square feet, you're you have intercept and less low. Why do we need an inter what does the intercept represent? Does it have a meaning, economic meaning, the price when x equals zero. This is in this case, and sometimes it works that way, but sometimes it doesn't. The truth is, you always want an intercept. And for us, in times, in an automa model, the intercept are going to have sometimes a very specific results. And sometimes you may not want an intercept. We'll talk about this. But here, when you do a cross section, intercept actually represents a bunch of things, everything that you forgot. So you may or may not have an easy interpretation. In this case, you might, but even if sometimes it doesn't make sense, sometimes it's not significant, and you leave it in any way, and the slope represent the change in Y for one change in x of course, those are population parameters. We're going to differentiate between population and estimate so you have the population. We don't know. We don't know where beta zero, beta one are. Those are my red red points are my data point, you have the error terms. What is included in an error term, anything that is not observed or anything that I have not included. So if, for example, I know that the distance from the ocean or the number of bathrooms or anything else, the age of the house will matter for you getting the price, and I don't include that, they're all going to get sucked into this. So you don't observe the outcome either. What you observe is Y hat, which we call the rosino, which is the difference between the actual data, the red point, and your regression line, which is the estimated line, which is the blue line? Everybody with me? Right? This is all of you. Now the question is, how do we estimate this blue line? We'll say so if you want to have multiple predictors, we just had predictor to the right, they're going to be square feet, bedroom, H, et cetera. And now what is the interpretation of this coefficient here? This parameter is now becomes the change in y for a one you'll be changing square feet, holding everything as constant for given the same number of bedroom, given the same edge of the house. These represent how much more you would pay for an additional square feet. How do we estimate those parameters? We're going to use OLS. What is OLS does, and why do we do OLS? What is ordinarily square. What does it mean? Which is also up there? Why are we not using so I'm taking all the residuals, i square them, I sum them, and I find the value for beta zero, beta one, beta k, that minimizes this by taking the sum, I make it this zero, I take the line of all the possible lines that come through here, right there are many lines. I could have a line like this. I could have a line like this. I could have a line like this. Of all the possible lines, I'm going to pick the one that makes the residuals the smallest. So often times you yourself, when I give you this point and say, put the line through them. You're going to your visually. You're going to make the same same thing, and you're going to put the line through the data. You. Why do we minimize the square? Because we want to treat positive and negative, overshooting or underfitting equally, right? Yes, that's because you want to. You care whether your mistake is positive or negative. What else? Why not absolute value? You can close the computer. Thank you. Why not absolute value? I said last time here, we're not going to allow computers, and it's up to you to stay present in cost. The thing with absolute values is that it doesn't put much as much of an emphasis on larger errors as we would if we were to square it. Yeah. So the thing is, squaring error analyze your right. And if I want to minimize the square, it says I really don't like big mistakes. So, and the third option is, why is it? Because? How do we minimize something? Is we take the first derivative we set equal to zero. When I take the first derivative or square, it becomes a linear function. So it's easy to solve. That is a convenient, nice and convenient end result on this, because I could do absolute value right? For example, will be another single absolute value does not is also is like this instead of curve. It doesn't penalize big mistake as much, but it's still penalized a little bit. But taking the first derivative of the sum absolute value is actually very hard now. Suppose now that we're doing this in the context of a finance issue, of a finance problem, we'll talk about it, because this is very similar to when we're going to talk about loss function for forecasting. Does it make sense to have a square loss function here? You're saying my loss function is the sum of square residuals, and I want to make that. I want to minimize my loss so I'm going to make as small as possible. Now let's think about in terms of finance. You're making an investment, you're investing in some stocks. What would be a good loss function for you? Does it make sense to have a curve, a square loss function? I loss function. Do you minimize positive and negative mistakes the same way? Are you equally happy if you're under predict stock or over predict your stock? Not equally happy? Right? You're probably still trying to minimize mistakes in the one direction, but you're probably quite happy if you make a lot of money in the other direction. So maybe a square function like this is convenient for some type of problems, but not for all of them. And something to keep in mind, except that going outside the square get things very, very complicated but similar. If you go into the bus stop, you try to predict the time at which you want to do the bus stop. Are you equally happy if you get there too early, as if you if you get here two minutes too early, as if you get two minutes too late? Is the cost of having two minutes late is very costly. So this is things that you need to keep in mind when you think about this type of questions. Well, for now, let's keep with the square, because it's nice, it's convenient and maintenance. So for recipient one regression with variable, you end up that coefficient is when you do the calculation is equal to this. There's the sum of xi minus this mean, y minus mean divided by the variance of the x's. So theoretically, say this equal represent the covariance between the x and y, when I scale it by the variance of y. This is what this is in population. This is in itself. Tell me, if I say anything that is not confusing. So what is this telling us about the variance of y? Yeah, so B is what how x and y com move scaled by the variation in x. Okay, so this is important. This is also we're going to see the Gabriela and the regression line always pass through the mean of X and the mean of y. Now, what does this tell us? How important is to have what happened with the value so x goes up, it's up when this goes up. So in a sense, first of all, let's think about it the opposite version. Okay, so what happened when there's zero variation? When this is zero, this is. Meaningless. So you only make sense. You have to have some variation in your axis. So what does it mean? This case, if I want to really know how the price of a house relates to the size of the square feet the size of a house, it's not helpful if I only measure houses that have the same size that I learned nothing. So you need to have enough variation on your explanatory variable to be learning to if you want to learn about the relationship between x and y. So I do this regression with some data. I have 200 observation and I have the square feet and the constant how tell me you have seen this regression before. Read this table. Tell me anything that you can learn from this table. Yeah, this one, of course, each additional 100 square feet increases the house by 2.86 times 100 so, so this must be in, this was in 1000s of dollars, 2.860 yeah, so sorry, this is, this was in 100 square feet. The unit was 100 square feet, and y was in 1000. So 100 square feet increased by 2.6 1000. So what else but look at this regression. I'm giving you this regression. Tell me anything? Okay, do basically, okay, the R squared and adjusted R squared tells us that the model is, like, relatively well fitted. Okay, tell me why? Well, it's point six. It's greater than point five. So it can't be that there's, like, only some random relationship between the x and the y, but because it's not extremely close to one, we can say that it's like relatively well fit, but it's might not be the most accurate fit. Yeah, here, here's another things, right? We have to learn how to interpret these numbers. I agree with you in this context, if I was doing this exercise, I probably will not be happy that happy 1.62 I only explained 62% of the variability in housing prices. It's not as bad. It's not bad. I will not think that 50% means you're flipping a coin. Okay, so the 15% means I'm still spending 50% of the variation housing prices, but 62 is still not very big. At the same time, what you will see that when we start doing some work with finance data, we're going to find out square equal to like point two, and you will be happy. Okay, so for finance is very hard to predict. On the other hand, you will see next week, when I run a trend on the GDP data that we saw last week, not Tuesday, the R squared will be 90% already. So for us in time series, sometimes in macro data, sometimes we are going to spend a lot of time going from point nine to point nine three, and that's going to buy us a lot, okay? And sometimes you spend a lot of time to go from point two to point two to two, okay, so it's all a little bit relative on the type of problem you're having. Anything else that we can learn from this? Feel that the t statistic is quite large, yeah. So those are definitely significant, right? And then we also have a concrete interval that is between 2.5 and 10.1 is depends on this an extra large, between 2500 to 3100 or something, $100 to pay. I would say this is probably not that big, which is a good thing, right? We're being precise. But again, big and small, that depends. Now another thing that we're going to do a lot now, in this case, it doesn't we're not going to learn so much when we go to Time Series. You always want to do, and I'm going to encourage you to do all the time, is do a plot of the fitted and actual data. Okay, so And here, here is, is we plotting to a scatter plot? Often time in time series, because it's time we actually do a line. So you're going to see more lines or exchange rate. They were like this, and then we're going to put the fitted value, and we're going to learn a lot by plotting the residuals, because for us, remember what is the big deal? Friends here, here. I don't know if this is which house is this? I don't know which. It doesn't matter whether I quote this one first or this one afterwards. It doesn't matter. But so, because these are just basically what here I'm doing, I am plotting in order of the size of the square feet. What we're going to do does here is we're going to plot them, so we are going to have our x is going to be time. Remember what I had was I had time on the horizontal axis and I had GDP or exchange rate on the vertical axis. So we're going to have time here. And therefore this is going to matter. I cannot invert those two. They're going to have to go in very specific order, which is the chronological order. And so similar for our zeros, we're going to plot as a line. They're going to be plotted in chronological order. I will say that, well, how would we want the zeros to look we're it, if this is a good regression, if I didn't make any stupid mistakes, what do I get? Yeah, random pattern. So random pattern probably ideally small. What are the assumption, or I choose like, what are the main assumption for OLS? For OLS to be unbiased? Yes, that is, by definition, by design, of what a residual is. What else so you you want absence of either the city and one more absence of omega variable bias, co linearity. Co linearity is an issue. There's one more absence of serial correlation, right So, and we'll talk a lot about it, because see that correlation for us matter a lot. Here, the here are the gas mark of assumptions. What are the assumptions that tell us to be for our lives. First of all, the model has to be linear. We make an assumption. The data has to be IID. Here you go. This is the first assumption. What happened? Where do we say what IID stands for is time series independent? No, no, there you go. First problem we are facing is here. We're also going to some assumption in this class, but it doesn't have to. I do a lot of work on non linearity, random. We have to think about it. Do what we do? Can we still do OLS? It turns out that we can, with some adjustment. You are not perfect linearity. That's okay. We just have to be careful. But you know, in a sense, is that a big of a deal? You just have to be a little bit careful of what you're doing. And we're going to see situation in which times you may end up but like perfect linearity Python, are, they will just tell you, I cannot run this equation, but if you're close to that, then you have to start thinking about zero. Conditional means you're right. So this is the mean of that. It's called the arrows, not the residuals. So it says that the arrows have to be conditional. Mean zero, which is not the case something like originated. Lack of electricity, which means that the bias on the energy think about the data that I showed you on the change in the s, p5, 100, where we have the volatility clusters, right? That is a position where the margins changes. That is the situation where we don't have and you can also have an assumption of normality, unless we're going to go to large samples. So after assumption one to four, right? So you can have electrocudicity, and in this case, I don't know why it doesn't says here, but also you need similar to scaracity. You need lack of senior correlation to have, I will put that serial correlation. So under one to four, you have the OLS is unbiased and consistent. And under the assumption one to six, you have the OLS is blue best Linear Unbiased is the best you can do all. Um, when does the when does this assumption? I fail? Fail? Well, the number four, for example, is when you have a bit of a double bias, measurement error, simultaneity and sample selection. So let's think about it. What does this mean? We're going to talk a lot about it. For example, if you omit the something like the neighbor quality, which will affect both the price and the size of the house, then you end up having that this is not satisfying, because we're omitting an important value. So what does it mean is that this beta one is not unbiased, is biased. You mean the Bible bias. But so what does that really mean? I need this number to be unbiased biased if I really want to know what is the causal effect of adding 100 square feet to the price of the house? What is the true effect of the size of the house onto the prices? Suppose that I only care about I don't care about the value of that number. I only care about predicting the price of the house where it is going to go next. In that case, I don't care, and I'm going to repeat this a million times, I don't care about the parameter being unbiased, because I don't care about the causal relationship. I only care about forecasting. So for us in time series, the concept of Omitted Variable bias, it's not going to matter so much. In fact, oftentimes, instead of saying including variable that may explain what GDP is going to do in the future, we're just going to prove where GDP was last quarter, and that's going to be enough to explain 90% of a measurement is always a problem, and you just hope to get good data. Simultaneity is also something that we have to care about, but only again, if we care about being unbiased. In our case, when we think about forecast, we don't care about simultaneity. So again, if I want to predict a variable, I can include something like as a predictor of the s5&p 100. It's quite likely say I want to predict exchange rates and I put the s5&p 100 as an explanatory variable in my prediction. To make my forecast, it's very likely that both the exchange rate, and the s and p5 100 will have the same driver behind them. So actually, I do have simultaneity, but I'm actually don't care about finding the true relationship between the s and p5 100 and the exchange rate. I only care about predicting exchange rate. So again, I will not care about simultaneity so much so we're having, we're going to have, for the large part of our class, we're going to have a slightly different focus, and therefore it will not matter to us. Some of this problem will not be affecting us because we care about, we don't care about causality. What about aeroskeleticity? We aeroskenetricity. These graphs are stupid. I ask this is I asked Gen GPT to do this graph. This is what it gives me. It says, Nothing, right? They're identical. So how would I know? Remember the lead core data, how the variance was smaller at the beginning than at the end. That is heteroscedasticity is when, if I have my data with like this, and this is the square of it, and this is the price. This is more obvious case of heteroskedas because it says that the variance of the prices, or the variance of your editor with the U is much larger for larger houses than it is for smaller houses. This is true heteroskedas. Now, interscholasticity is something that you want to worry a little bit about, but not so much. Why those characteristics does not affect whether the estimator is bias or bias affects the standard error. So you hypothesis. When you do about this test, you have to be careful. But what do we do in that case, all you have to do is in Python and R, you ask your computer to do robust stand up error, which is robust to heteroskedasticity, and see the correlation. Does that? Just like scale the errors do? No, it just estimates the variance in a way that takes into account that, in a sense, in a sense, yes, in a sense, because it's basically say, I'm going to scale each error by its variance the standard error, so that they all have the same so it just does in a little bit more complicated way, because you actually you estimate the variance of the beta hat in a different way so that it accounts for the possibility that you have a better accurate estimation of the variance. Did you say that heteroskedasticity, or homoscedasticity affects the standard errors, or is it both? So almost kill us. This is what you want. Oh, yeah. So both terms refer to the variance of the use. This is where constant variance. This is variance that change the ethereal changes almost the same. So when you have a variance that changes, then that's when you may have not be virus unbiased. You unbiased. They also have senior correlations. What is senior correlation? Signal correlation is something that you don't discuss so much in 221 because it's not it's not easy to find in in cross section, but suppose that your data did like this, so you have Okay, when I'm in this range, the prices is high in this range, the price is low in this range, is price and is high. So this means is like is when the error around for different observation are correlated, because I'm here, that means that all the errors are similar here, all there are similar, etc. This is, you don't worry so much in cross section, because it's rarely defined cross sectional happiness, except if you think about that, people in the same group may be correlated to each other, right? If you sample people that are very similar to each other behavior, or old friends, then you may find that the effect of something may be biased by the fact that these people affect each other, having to imagine people affecting each other, but in time series, like we talked about, it's there all the time, because data over time is correlated with each other. So you have friends track the facts, the system. Those are all things that we're going to talk about. Again. This affects whether the data is still unbiased, so you have problem with that, but you have the standard errors needs to be corrected, okay? And the same type of robust and error that you could use for representing you can use here this hack. When you write robust in R or Python, it does what we call half saturated autocorrelation. It's robust to both. So you can simply say, if you're worried about having either x because of this your correlation, you say, hey, just give me correct standard error, give me the standard error that I will pass. Okay. So I'm saying because if I have the right standard error, that means that I have the right t test, right because the t test is beta hat divided by the standard error. So if the standard is wrong, your hypothesis testing may be wrong. However, anytime series, rather than say, I want to, you know, pass through it or I want to correct, make sure about the standard errors, we're actually going to say we're going to exploit this from the very beginning on Tuesday, and say, if things are correlated over time, I'm actually going to use that to my advantage, and I'm going to use that to forecast better and tomorrow better. So we're going to use that, and it's going to help us a lot in forecasting. Every time you have a time series, most likely adding a large value, which we all talk about the next week, will help you forecast, and that's we're going to autoregressive model is all about exploiting this serial correlation in the data. Questions, again, how do we measure goodness of fit? Which means how many measure how well we do? Well you have three parts of you. Remember. Total sum of square, explained sum of squared, residual sum of square, which I call it differently. I call total sum of square, you see both ways. Then you have this. I call it RSS because it's the regression sum of square, and I call this ESS because it's the error sum of square. So you can see this column different ways. So make sure that you know how what it means one notation, have you seen this? How you seen this way or the other way? Okay, that defines the R square right, which is the explained sum of squared variables, or sum of square and tells you how much what sum of squares, basically, what is the variability of y? And the souvenir says, how much I explain all the total variability? So when we have point six two, we say, we explain 62% of the variability in the y. Now, why do we use adjusted R square other than r square to make up for the correlation between the variance, or not really we adjust, because what we adjust? What does it mean? Adjust? Adjustment. Here you have two things, like you have r squared and adjust the R square. What is the difference? No, this is always bigger. Why here we here is this is good for interpretation. This is telling we explain 62% the problem we are square is that if I add junk, if I had something that has zero significance, the R square is always going to go up. So I can get this to it's going to go up by daily data, but it's still going to go up. So I can add a bunch of junk, and the R square is also going to go up. But we have a cost, right? Because every time we add a variable, we're losing in degrees of freedom. We're losing something. We need more data. The more variable we have, the more data you need. So we don't like to have too many variables. We like to be a little bit parsimonious. Granted, you use too big data. So if you have a lot of data, you have more possibility to have Android explanatory variable when you have 30,000 but also you have to remember that in macro, we don't have that most if you think about it, most data that we have are maybe between, if you're lucky, from the 50s to now. How many years is that? And then you oftentimes share quarterly data. Oftentimes, when you are in macro data, you may have 300 and even then you have to worry. Because remember, the beginning, we had a very different we had the gold standard at a certain point, and that was very different. The Monday for the Federal Reserve were very different. So sometimes you want to cut it off when things change by a lot. So most times we're going to have to deal with 300 400 unless you do the five, then you have more. So we don't have that many data points. And so we are going to want to be parsimonious, and this adjust our square what it does is penalize you by for the degrees of freedom, which means penalize you for the number of explanatory variable you have. Yeah, I'm going to add something, but if I add something that doesn't have that much significance, this is actually going to go down. So if I compare two different models, they may have one, the second one may have higher r squared, but lower. That tells us you have something that is not very helpful. And so the one without, the one that adjusted so higher asquirt does not mean a very good model could be squares. Does not mean that you have a good good model could be supervisors. What does that mean? Model. What does that mean? We're gonna see it a lot. Is mean, like, you know, have you ever seen all those weird graphs, statistics you can Google, like, weird correlations. So for example, you have, like, you do, like, the number of ice cream so the amount of ice cream sold, and the number of homicides, or something like that. And you see them that they're if you run regress one on the other, like the R squared is like 80% and is that because the number of ice cream salts, it causes almost. On it or not, right? There are million of those correlations that you can find, and that's what the square correlation is. It's just and we're going to see a lot, because in macro, if I, if I find two variables that both goes up like this, and I regress one on the other, probably I get a very higher square simply due to the fact that they're both going up. But is that a good is, are they even related to each other? Sometimes not. It's just that they're both going up. That's what is a speed of regression. It's regression that is, gives you a higher square, but it's actually meaningless. It shouldn't be. There is an artifact of is a statistic. So what do we do then? Yes, sorry. Could you explain why the low R squared can not necessarily mean it's a bad model? Think about finance is very, very hard to predict stock. We know that the market are pretty efficient, so if all the sudden you want you find the regression with point two, you say, oh, super low. I toss it out the window. But one coefficient will be just enough. Maybe the coefficient there is significant, and it's just enough to help you economically. If you make a little bit of money, and if you invest a lot of money, that might be a lot of money, it's just that is actually a very hard variable to predict and then, but that coefficient itself is economically meaningful. So what do we do? We penalize. We take this and we penalize about the number of observation minus one, and we do the parallelization for the number of regressors. So we don't like too many regressors. So you use the adjusted R square when you compare different models, and you look at the R square for interpretation. Questions, the clock keeps going. You just need to set. But it's like I asked, I emailed, I wanted the card to work. Now, one step closer, but not hypothesis testing. How do we do hypothesis testing? Well, what is the t statistics, for example, let's think about this. What is the theta it gives you? Is the test of significance, which is just beta hat divided by the standard error. And then what do we do? Right? So what do we do? Hypothesis Testing. How do we I'm hoping that you guys know, but let me go again. Let's think about what does this mean? I can give an interpretation. What is this number represent? There is a population true relationship to the square feet of the prices in this house, but then I'm getting a number. Is this exactly the true value for the population parameter? No, correct. What is it? Is it guess? Is your best guess. In a sense, this is one possible value. Is one possible realization of a random variable that is your estimator beta hat. The estimator beta hat is a random variable that has a distribution. So under certain assumption, it can be normal, asymptotically, it's going to be normal, but it's just a distribution. So when I run a regression, I'm going to get one value. If I now get a different sample or add a few data points, I may get a different number. Every time you run a regression, you get a different number. What does it mean to be unbiased in this here? What does it mean to be unbiased in this graph? To not exactly, not better, how So then again, actually, not better hat itself, because Berhad will never be equal to but still in. Value, no, the expectation, right? So what does it mean? In this context? It means that, what is the expectation of a random variable, the mean? So in this context, it means that this point, which is the mean on the normal, is going to be better one the population value. So when I do one sample, I'm going to get a number, another sample, I'm going to get another number, and then another number, another number, and I'm going to be somehow, although it can be a little bit bigger, a little bit smaller, but somehow it's going to be around the mean. And if the distribution looks like this, what does it mean? More times? Because I have a high probability, I'm going to get a number that's pretty close to the mean. Occasionally, I'm going to get a number that is far from the mean, but that's going to happen very rarely, because that is a small product of happening. And this how wide this is, is going to be determined by the standard error of beta hat. So my hope is that I have a true value, which is the population of this is normal drop, what is the density of a hat? So this is E of Rahat, which you hope, if everything goes well, that is actually equal to the population. Is the population value in expectation. And then I have distribution. This is also distribution. Man, I can draw, protect. Pretend that they're both centered around the same number between the blue and the red. Which one do you like better? The red? Why? Because the variance is smaller. Yeah. So the variance is smaller, so that means that I'm more likely to get a number that is closer to the true value. So in this case, I'm being more estimator that is more precise. So because better hat is not exactly is it on the variable, when I look at this number, 2.86, whatever that was, I cannot just look at that number in isolation. What does it mean to be significant? You guys look and told me all right, significant as a small p value or a large t statistic, however you want to look at because I cannot just look at this number. This is very statistics, right? This is random. I cannot just look at this number in isolation. In isolation means nothing. Is 2.86 big, small, relevant, not relevant. I don't know. I don't know unless I know for a fact, because if my distribution actually look like this. So the barrier was huge, a number of 2.86 probably contain no information to me. So when I start looking at the coefficient relative to the standard error, this is what we do when we computed this statistic, which is this divided by this, which then will tell us whether that number is truly big or true small, because I have to look relative to its variance to have to make sense, and this is the confident interval. And the size of this standard error will also determine whether this complete interval is wide or not. This is pretty small. If the distribution was this, how would the standard error the complete interval be very, very very big. Everybody with me. You know that? You know this rule is simple, right? You guys used to it, but I think it's more important to think about why? What is the intuition and why do we have to think about those numbers we care and this number alone with absolutely nothing, from a statistical point of view, and even economically, unless I associate a standard error that allows me to decide is this number will be as well. I. And similar, because the standard because I compute the computer intervals are better half plus two times the standard error. The standard error is going to determine how big that computer is. There is a test probability. Have you done any asymptotic theory discusses. We discuss consistency. So we always have to think about a small sample versus large samples. In a sense. You know that with a normality assumption and the normality assumption, this t statistic is exactly a t statistic, and this is true for for usually we think about but, but the assumption of normality is actually very rare. Data are not very much normal. When data are not normal, then we can make some we can approximate everything by thinking that that n may go to infinity. So that's talking about asymptotic approximation. Means I'm going to make the thought expense experiment, the thought experiment of thinking that N gets very large, potentially up to infinity when I am allowed to do that, or when I do that, then I can rely on other properties. What is consistency is when consistency says that theta hat will converge in probability to beta to the true value. You probably have heard this more in terms of the lower large numbers. What is the lower large number? Say is that if I compute an average of a population, as long as n gets very, very large, I know that the average is going to be very close to the true mean of that population. And the same is here as syntopically means when n gets large. I can make some other assumptions. One is that better hat is equal to beta. So that was what you were thinking, more than a binance You were saying when f is very large, I can say better hat is exactly what to beta, and I can say that when n is large, Berta hat is asymptotically normal, or at least a scale version of it is asymptotically normal, but I need n to be large, and therefore I can still use the normal distribution. But I need n to be large when we use 1.96 this is the this is the percentile of the normal, which we often approximate to two. So we say the complete confidence interval is better half plus or minus two times the standard error, because we are going straight directly to making a normal approximation. What does it mean to be large? That's a good question. You good question. And actually, users and bigger than 100 but it can be even smaller. A lot depends on what how does the data you started with looks like? If the data you started with looks a lot like a normal then you may not need that any observation. If the data you started with has very powerful diploma, as in the finance data that has cocktails, then you need lot more data points. While I say that, if you have n equal to 10, you got to be careful, right? We know that you want to have enough observations. One, because more observation, you learn more, but also because a lot of the approximation that we make are approximation that rely on these ideal large samples or asymptotic and therefore I need the sample that is large enough. I these are some practical guidelines. We never we're never going to have n less than 30 So, and we're going to do a lot of large sample approximation. And I'm going to talk to you a little bit about asymptotic, because it's relevant. For us, but I'm going to try not to be okay. Let's talk briefly. I have 15 minutes about dummy variable because we're going to put an interface already next week. Have you done example with dummy variables, right? Okay, million options. You can make anything a dummy variable, right? Why do we use dummy variable? Well, we want to capture difference between groups, and then, because that's the difference between in drugs. Actually, the most typical is like female and male treatment and untreated, right? But for us, what we're going to see next week, one of the biggest ways to use on the variable is going to be for seasonality, one for each season, or one for each month, to indicate that there's some things that happen that are just specific to each month. When we're going to look at the legal data, you're going to see that some months are different. Why? Because we talked about it. There is the fourth of July, there is New Year's Eve, right? What month are different? Any retail sales there that you find, I think one homework I'm asking you to find any retail sales from a friend. You will see that they have seasonality, and therefore you have to model the seasonality, because human behavior changes resistance. Traffic accident changes resistance. Sale changes so many things because our life, economic life, personal life, often varies with link to that account. So here's the thing, okay, let's look at a single dummy variable. I have square feet, and now I'm going to have the dummy variable that is waterfront, whether the data is a waterfront property or not. So what does it mean? Is, if I put it straight like this, let me see, okay, here you've done it. So how do we interpret this data? Let's go back here for square feet. How do we interpret this? Yes, you have to be a little bit careful, though, because now we have an extra variable. So variable. So how do we say put any extra square 100 square feet, the price goes up by 2654 holding waterfront constant, holding everything else constant. So two houses that are both on waterfront, so the same other variable, then I say that if I add 100 square feet, I'm going to pay 2654 more two hours that are not waterfront, is the same. I'm going to pay the same. So you can see that the effect, and in this case, what I have is I'm saying that the effect of adding square feet is the same, whether I'm waterfront or non waterfront, because given that constant I have, the square feet is the same, the effect of square feet is the same. However, how do we interpret this other variable here? Yeah, well, it's written there, but if a house is on a waterfront property, it's $87,000 more expensive. Yeah, I shouldn't give you too much. Yeah. So what is this represent? Now, this is this now again, this is holding everything as constant, right? So this is really tells you that on average, I think the other way to say is, I like it better on average, because this is all about averages. A house of that has a waterfront is going to cost. It's about 87,000 more. So if you look at the graph, it means that the average the cost of the waterfront jumps up. How much is this difference? 86,000 87,000 Now, once I pay 87,000 more for being on the waterfront, the effect of the size is the same. Do you think that make sense? No. What would you do then, recalculate data, one for waterfront, yeah. So how do I do that? I can what. It doesn't give me that book anyway. So how, but how? What? What variable would add to my regression now, what is the variable that give me this says that have something like this? I would say, okay, when I have waterfront house, I'm not only going to pay more on average, but also the effect of the size square feet is going to be steeper. How do I do that? Is it an interaction term? Yeah, so I would have square feet. I'll add waterfront alone, and then I will add the interaction you two. So now your regression will be square feet waterfront and the interaction of the two. So if you want to see what happens, in other words, once you write your model things that I make my undergraduate tool to say, Okay, what is the model for known waterfront? What is known waterfront is where the dummy variable is zero. So in this case, I have beta zero. Is there square feet? Is there no waterfront? This is zero. This is zero. So this is your model. When you have waterfront, I have now have beta zero plus beta one square feet. Now this is one, right? The dummy variable, the waterfront is equal to one. So now what is the constant? Is beta zero plus beta two. Is my new constant in this model. And here I have square feet times one square feet. So you use log coefficients, beta one plus beta three. And I really hope I wish I had the output really upsetting. So beta three is the increase in slope Exactly. So you have to be careful, because when I look at the output, is going to give you this, this, this and this, how to interpret. This is the fact of square feet. When you're not on the waterfront. This is the fact, on average price of being on the waterfront. What is the fact of square feet when you're a butterfly, waterfront? Is not this one? Is this one plus this one? This is the incremental price, incremental effect of square feet for being on the waterfront. Yes, isn't the beta one we calculated for the non waterfront properties. Doesn't that also include the waterfront properties in that calculation this one? Yeah, because was not regression done on all the properties. Yeah, so this could be so what I'm saying is, this is the fact of square feet for no waterfront. What is the effect on waterfront? Of square feet there is going to be this, plus this, you're right that this is also the effect, but the square feet of waterfront but then you have to subtract, depending on the sign this, this piece. So this what I was trying to say. This is the incremental effect of the square feet for waterfront property, incremental over whatever Now, one thing that I want to emphasize that is going to come up later when we talk about statistical dummy variable, because we have a monthly data, we have 12 dummy variables. Okay, suppose that you have three categories for dummy variable, whether it's a single family or not, when, whether you have a condo and where is a townhouse. Now you have three dummy variables all equal one or zero. How many dummy variable Can I include in my regression? Isn't it? The just however many combinations, yeah, so you have to be careful, because if I add square feet, and then I have d, 1d, 23 you will know that you do something wrong. And I have a constant, you're gonna know that you do something wrong, because Python or whatever, is gonna say, Oh, I cannot do anything. Why? Because where is the constant? Constant is please say I have a regression that is equal to 111111, but d1, plus d2, plus d3 is exactly equal to 1111, so you have perfect multicollinearity, so you cannot have the constant and all three dummy variables. So what we usually do is we leave out one dummy variable. In a sense, we were doing the same here, because we had lifetime. We didn't write a dummy variable for waterfront. 

Transcribed by https://otter.ai
