A little bit more. So this is a still layer one. So for example, the shape of this right, this decay, and this decay, how fast they decay is going to depend on the value of the parameters, right? So in AR one, this is what this is for rho equal to 05, this is where rho equal that coefficient. We get to 0.7 this is 0.9 so the shape will dependent on the on the values. One thing that we like, so we did all this calculation last time. And then one more thing that I wanted to talk about, is there one is actually a really good model for us to think about it. And we'll, we'll discuss more about this. Suppose that I have this so what, how does, how do we think about this model? Right? We say GDP today, or inflation today, is equal to some fraction of the GDP last quarter. And ADA has reflections like this has to be a fraction. Can you go up or does it have to go down? So we'll think about what a reasonable value for this number plus this x, what is epsilon d? This is a shock. If we haven't modeled everything, this shock might contains, like any error terms in the linear regressions may contain everything. Okay? So for example, if this was truly a r2 model and I specified as r1 the extra correlation is going to move. Here. Do okay, but suppose that I got it right, and this is truly a one. What does this mean? So this is, this is the error, isn't the error in any regressions. So if in the new world, this will be completely unpredictable, right? So, right? Why? Well, because if there's anything left that is predictable in this quantity, that means I have missed something here. So we start with this class. How do I want this I want a random so what does empathy will mean in random, close to zero, in terms that we have seen, we talked about that this should be a white noise. Now, how does this? What does also not admit suppose now that I have a shock, and let's just say that today I have an unpredictable shock equal to one or whatever value so, and let's assume, for sake of simplicity, that I Start at yt minus one equal to zero, just as a starting point. It's just, this is just a example, but the idea is to call that I'm at the steady state. Now, what is YT today? If yt minus one is nothing zero, YT today is going to be exactly equal to epsilon t, which in this case, is going to be you guys following me. Yeah. Now, what are we y t plus one? You two. Now we're going to do this. This is a thought experiment. We would say we're going to shock today only, and after that, they're all going to be equal to zero. This is not really a good experiment, per se, but it's something like we see later. What at the mean is like, suppose that shock one and what is y2 plus one. YT plus one is rho times YT. If yt is one, this is going to be the overall what is YT plus two? Rho squared, YT plus three, rho? We'll do more of this in the next time. But this really means that this row in this simple layer one also represents what is called the dynamic. Be multiplier, or the input response of a shock today. So what does it mean that if I have a shock today, is what it is, and then how much of that shock will be still there next, tomorrow is going to be rho. How much of that shock will be there tomorrow is going to be rho squared. So you said the dynamic multiplier of the input shot, yeah, okay, so that's why, when you grow it's less than one. So why do we care so much that rho is equal to one or less than one? What happened when rho is equal to equal to one? It never goes away. The shock is permanent. If rho is less than one, the shock will go away eventually. And if you think about it, how slow? Remember, this is the same thing. This is rho, rho, square rho, Q we saw the last time. So how is low, whereas rho is equal to point nine, going to go very slow before this completely disappear. It's probably going to be 1213, days or even more, right? Depending like maybe 1520, quarters a month, it's going to be like irrelevant. If row is not that big, then maybe in two or three, in maybe in a year is going to consider that. And what happens when rho is bigger than one exactly explode. So it's got is an explosive, explosive model. We don't believe that many macro variable are actually explosive. The only one that maybe is considered explosive is prices, and we'll talk more about why, etc, because the inflation is actually very persistent price itself. But generally speaking, in macro we don't think that many things are explosive, although there are situations where housing bubble, when you think about bubble, right, when you think about bubble, is something that girl, Gabriela, then explodes. So when you think about housing bubble, some financial bubble, things like that, that's where you start thinking about situations where it could be things may expose but we don't. We often think about them happening for a short time, and then they actually so this value for rho is something that we're going to talk much about it, and in fact, is if for everyone to be stationary, rho has to be strictly less than one. So for now, we are going to assume that all our autoregressive model actually have a rho that is less than one, because then we're going to talk about what to do when rho is equal to one and what happened. And this is what I say here, right? That that role measure the persistence of the data, and there's a lot of discussion on the literature about what is actually, is the true value for many micro variables, are they persistent or not persistent? So when this value, I don't know why I say five, we have known before is one, it's a particular interest, and we're going to spend the whole module, just a brief module, just on this. What happened is the state is non stationary. The effect of the shock never disappears because it's stationary, the whole theory does not apply. And so I have to be very careful about even going and trying to find the best Alpha model we saw last time. The virus can be incident when rho is equal to one, because the value was sigma squared divided by one minus squared, I also cannot construct sensible forecast, especially in the long run. And we'll talk more about this when we talk about forecasts, something that I don't cover in this class, but I do in my graduate class, is a lot of the things that we're learning is that we can still do use, like a normal distributions for our testing, for the progressive model, because we think that if you're stationary, you still have some sort of central limit theorem to apply that down. Was sufficient. I normally distributed. The sample is large enough, whereas equal to one, the actually does not apply, and everything is much more complicated. It's a really fun math if you like math, but it shows you that and you don't have the usual distribution, we're going to have to use different distributions, a different table. I will discuss about this when we get to the non stationary. And this is called when rho is equal to one, is called a uni route model, or a model with a unit, because in Unit, because the root rho is equal to one, and there are million of work out there. And if you you see that, even if you ask Python, I did it today. I'll show you later. I was like, 20 minutes to class, and I'm like, I need an example. I need an example. Easier, drive me crazy. What do you style on my mark? I give up. I may not, because what do I need to use? Easier. Let me just clock come to help. So I told God to do something, and blah, blah, blah, he spit it out, and it was fine. And you will see the one thing he does, it tests for a little route. Because it's very traditional that you do that. And there are million papers that do that. So you're going to see, if you read some papers, I have times you're not really see that one of the things that they do is the test score in the middle of the test for specialty. And we're going to learn about that now, when you have, we stopped here last time, when you have air to the market, annoyingly complicated, and I don't think you need necessarily to know, okay, do. Just know that when you have two, if you have a polynomial about this two, this polynomial is like an equation of order two has two solutions. So now, instead of adding one value that needs to be less than one, I have to be two value that needs to be less than one. You less than one, and you can solve more complicated, because rho is not actually the solution to that equation. The root of that equation is actually one over the root. So you will see the statement like the roots. The roots are outside the circle, which is doubly comprised, because now we're talking about outside bigger than one, because actually the row is now the root itself for that polynomial is one over the root. But this is to say you're going to need to test some condition for the model to be stationary, and it's going to depend on the values of this condition. Question. Questions. There's a lot of math behind here, and I think you don't need to know it. I'm gonna skip it. But if you're really a math geek and you want to know it, I have take away the beauty and the pleasure of doing so much money to anybody. So whatever, they have a mix of the two, right? We have, and you see that it's nice because they sleep. What happened with the Arma? Well, that's not that makes it complicated, because it's a mix. And so what you see, you see something like this. You they, decays to zero. Both of them, remember, I say here, decays and oscillates because it is receiving the decay. But it's possible that it goes up and down, up and down, and the loop is negative and the intercellular. So both of them, so this in the 90s, which seems for you a long time ago, from way before you were born, gave rise to a approach that's called the box and Jensen approach, which was where I iterated. So you can look at the chorale gram, then you would estimate, then you look at the choreographer again, then you would estimate. It was almost like a routine that you can do, and it's not used that much anymore, per se, but I think he I still teach it, because I used to teach weeks on this right? But now each other in two classes, because I think it's very useful for you to still have this idea. And I said the most important thing is, if you compute the autocorrelation function of the residuals, those should tell you, and by just looking at the autocorrelation function, you should quickly be able to see whether you have serial correlation still in your zero. So remember, the goal is to get to the point where there's not serial correlation. And I'll show you now another way to do it is, the more modern way to do it is, we just do a bunch. Regressions, and then we look at the whole thing. We look at we do model selection the same way you would do it otherwise. We're going to look at distribution, we're going to go the key statistics, we're looking at the information criteria. And I think if you put all of this, you know, like in a holistic way of looking at things, it's probably the right way. I skip this once we have decided which model, how do we estimate? So here is, here is a recipe that you can use, and we're going to use in a second, which I think about. It's not perfect, but you have time. The first thing you're going to have to make sure the data stationary. You don't know yet how to do that, so we're going to bypass this step for now, okay, and because it's more technically complicated, it's important that I showed that. I think we learned first the rest, and then we go back here. So one option is we have to look at the correlate coreogram of what remember, if you have a trend, and not only stationarity, seasonality, if you have trend is seasonality we discussed the last time you have To remove those first. So in this stationarity. So what does it mean is, if you have a trend in seasonality, you have to include trend and seasonality first, or you get decentralized data, you're also going to test. Sorry, what did you say was seasonality instead? Oh, that one. Okay, thank you. Well, the first step is check there's a trend like we did, check there is a sensibleity. Then what is the detailed decisionalized data? Is the residual from the regression? So take the residual, do the plot of the correlograms. The plot of the correlograms will tell you something about the type, how much CETA correlation you have in your data, and that's a good starting point. If the choreograph is completely flat, you're done, it's going to be unlikely that it's flat for any macro variable, except maybe financial returns. Then there may have any other micro variable will probably not define. And then, using what we just learned about how the curl of gamma that should give you starting point. Do I need to include an outdoor aggressive component? When it included a moving, natural component. Then you add one or two or three, depending on what you see in your in the parallelogram. Then you estimate. I'll give you here how to estimate or not. I'm going to give you a very, very brief idea of how actually you end up estimating. But again, I'm not going to spend so much time because at the end, I thought that for you. And then you look at individual tasks for significance. It's not significant. You probably have too much. You can take it. And here's the artsy part. Now here becomes your own personal judgment. The ideal way to go is from large to small, rather than go to small, from small to large, always add a few extra large, if you're sure, and then eliminate the one I 100, then you're gonna say, Okay, I have two models, and sometimes you know this test, obviously clearly enough significant, show you can deliver for your model. If it's marginal, significant, what do you do? Here's where the information criteria comes to help you compute the information criteria for your models and use the knowledge that you have of the information criteria, remember, the smaller, the better. Then again, look at the graph and correlate them with the residuals. How do they look? If you still feel like you have seen a correlation in there, then just keep going and stop when you think you've done you have exploit anything that there is to exploit. On Tuesday, I'm going. To bring one data set here in class, and we're going to do it from top to bottom together, the whole thing. Okay, so now, first, I'm going to show you some examples just for the autoregressive part. Now I'm going to pretend that it's dependent, and this is i Okay, you so first, first, I use similar simulated data that I have before, and I have so this is an air to model, okay, if you look at this, suppose that this was going to be residual from aggression, and you plot them like this, Your eyes will tell you, this is, this is random. There's no zero correlation. This is where the autocorrelation functions come into play. Okay, so this is the partial. This is the outer correlation function of this model, and this is the partial. Now you can see, for example, here. So what does the theory tell us? I know this is air two. I generate air two says that this should be taken slowly, right? And this should drop to zero after two. It's easy to see that this dropped zero. It's not so obvious to see that this is k, right, just, just nothing. Always works perfectly. But if anything, once you look at this and say, Oh, look at those. These are completely random. Yay. I'm good. My receiver look good. And then you look at something like this, this time not You're not done. There is still some senior correlation. That is that, because we want to forecast, we want to exploit. And so what you do is says, Oh, I don't know. Maybe it's a Air One. Can you, I'm sorry, can you I'm sorry, could you tell me how looking at that correlate, how you can see serial correlation simply from the fact that these are big if there was no serial correlation whatsoever, it would be one and then straight inside The company. Good question. Yes, a same here. Why? Because for a yard, they should all be zero, except for the first one. So the fact that this is somehow big, this is somehow a little bit this is big. This is big outside the computer interval tells me that I have zero correlation. Now, the question is, Where will I start? Okay, it's hard to distinguish whether this is an we'll see practical example in real data, etc. But if I say something like that, I say, now I have to estimate it. Where will I start? Right? So you can look at this and say you have two options. Say, oh, to me, this really look like two outside. And then it dropped to zero. And this is the partial calculation. So the most likely model for this is another best model of order two. And I'm going to start right there. This is one option. Option two is just know that when you, when you're in practice, real data, most of the data can real data can be really be explained well with the natural regressive model. So an out regressive model is always a good place to start. Now, an option here would say I'm going to start with air one, what I didn't have, what I didn't What I didn't have, and I don't know to do it in Python. What I would like to do is. To figure it out is I estimated AR one, and I get this right, so I have Python has a Arma order. I don't know what routine will J teach you, but I don't know you. It so you have a Coada, you have an auto regression root. How big is that? 0.5 it makes a little bit of sense, right? Because look at what is the value there point five, and is this significant? Yes is the highest significance. Sigma. Here is a balance you can ignore and you estimate even precision. Now, what I was running late, what useful things to do in this case would be compute the residual from this regression and plot the residuals from this regression and plot the autocorrelation function of these residuals. We know for a fact that the true model is the autoregressive order too. So if I did this, you will see that the residuals will still have the correlation. So then if you do that, you say, Okay, let me do a natural rest of order two. And now you go, here you have two roots. Change the value, change it, and it doesn't report the R square in this output, okay, and then they're both now this is, I think this is you'd get by doing. See, this is the routine that tells you wanna, this is the data and you wanna arm up. This is the first is the degree of the upper correlation. The second one is, if you want first difference, we'll talk about it later, as this is the degree of the moving average. But you could have said, let's say, tell them do all s regression on YT, yt minus one and yt minus two, it will give you a more standard looking output. Now, what happened if I tell you go to three, I have three legs, so this is to be overfitting a little bit. And in fact, the last one is not significant, so I know that I would want to stop it. Now I go from one to two into three. So I'm actually doing the opposite of what I told you. You should listen was, for explanatory purposes, I would always suggest that you go from big to small. So if I doubt, I would have started at two or maybe a three, found that this was not significant, and then went down. So you would just like, start at like, so you would just, like, start at like, a couple, and then wherever you see like, so in this case, actually, this is such a clear cut case, because if you look here, it's two, and the three is very nice, but sometimes you get two and then maybe the three is right on the line. And so definitely, so that's, it counts a little bit. Now you can do a bigger so it's a little bit after you there is a little bit of parking. Now, if I do an M, a, two, now I get c. This is a different process. And now again, these are very the parameter chosen in a way that makes it not so clear cut. What is the May, how the May should look like, and the algorithm should drop to zero, which it does. After two this should be decaying to zero. Is this the K to zero? It almost looks like it goes down so fast, it almost looks like it's dropped to zero. So you have to take those with a little bit of grain of salt. So if I estimate it, I guess something like this. So I have, again, in this case, you see, I have only two moon, average root, I get this, and then you always leave the constant, even if it's not significant. Why? Because it's in negative regression with the constant. The constant fits like everything else, like is not that big of a deal, but capture, include everything else that you have forgotten. When you can take it out, but then you have to worry about because everything, all the measures that you can not scale it by is this gets a little tricky, but with the cost that may get into your way is when you want to forecast, we'll see examples, no, multiple they can be so in a sense, I could have taken the same data, right? And so let's take the same data here. Suppose that I said, Okay, instead of, this is the same model, right? I estimate I know that the model is AR two, sorry, ma two. What if I tell you that instead of Ma two, I want to estimate, I say, oh my god, I'm making a mistake. And I'm going to say the air two, it's going to look different. Now, is this better than the other one? So I don't now, let's do it. This is AR three. Now this these are significant. This is nothing. This is significant. This is significant, but this is not significant. What is remember that you Rabbi, if I do sex, well, someone else here, right? So maybe I will stop at three. This is a good model. So you started completely different than me, and you say, Oh, I think in the air three. Which one is better, mine or yours. Now if I did this instead of this is an automatic typical and so it leaves the two. If you do this like OLS, you could also ask him to do one, leg one and leg three and skip leg two. With this, with this. And out of my procedure, I cannot tell you to skip to this. If I say three is one, two and three. But you have this model. I have my ma two model, which one is better? So here the AIC is 1101406, I this is 1402, so this is technically a tiny bit better. What does it really is it? Is that that huge difference? Probably not. Or maybe I can even try to say, what is it? R power, one, two, now is 1404, is worse than ama two, but it's a little bit better than so there's many, many options here, and this is not significant So, but the question is, I we can have the same data. I start one way. You start another way. So you end up to do slightly different model. Now at the end, you can use the information that didn't tell me which one which was better. This is one clear cut way. Maybe sometimes this information the clear tells one thing. This is the other one. If they're so close that I basically did remember what I said at the end of the last class, that I can go from one to the other, I can always write an autoregression of more than one as I'm moving average. Imagine if I have an autoregression of more than one, and what are the coefficients, right? So I had if you do the math, at the end of the last class, we said, I can write this one. As this. And technically this goes on, technically, mathematically, this goes to the link. I can also write this one. So this is the same mathematical similar. If I have something like this, can be written as this. I Okay, so enough to regressive order, one can be written as a number and a. A one can you break them? And in fact, an arm market. Can be written as a moving average or auto regressive. So they're all sort of like interchangeable. Well, definition is like, okay, here I have one coefficient. Here I have an infinite number of coefficients. But look at this, if it always very small. Here I have say 03 this is going to be 0302 squared. This is already tiny. So while mathematically, it tells you that this can be different than this. Probably statistically, you will find that at three, you're already done. Everything else depending on the value of growth. This is to say that whether you go out of the moving average, you and I may end up as something that Mathematica are identical, and therefore nobody says that we will end up in the same place, but they both explain the same amount we will see when we talk about forecasting, which is interesting. Part of all this is why people don't like physical forecasting, because actually, this one doesn't tell you really how far you can forecast. We'll see later, there are sufficient that point to the fact that people don't tend to like moving average more or more, because one is easy to interpret, is easy to forecast with this. This is actually, I haven't talked about estimation here, but this is estimated by simply ordered OLS. To estimate this, you need actually to be to the non linear maximization of the likelihood a Python that's super fast but can take longer, so it's not very some things that would point that, yeah, why? Yes? You end up with two. Completely different spots, and that's absolutely okay. That's the beauty. Now here I have an ARMA, two, one process. How do they look? Again? Technically, we said that both of them should be decayed. Are they decaying? That's all that is very much the game could be dropped zero. So this is to say, if you look at this, so here is, I have, okay, I'm estimated in Alma two, one, I think this is blood making a strange choice, right? Probably I don't choose. Minus 05 minus 03 and 04 I know why that's a very good choice. By chance ends up being a very good choice, very weird choice, because if you look actually, you uh, interesting enough. So this is kind of cool. I didn't look at this, so I told Claude, generate up in our model. Actually, what I did is I gave because I'm learning and I'm getting obsessed with this stuff, right? And I spent hours watching videos also anyway. So I said, Oh, I have to do glass. And so I got this, and I didn't even have time to I can get set up anything fancy. I just got caught on the web. I gave it this long prompt, and I said, off we go and I go. Myself. Very much. I So we did this. Then I had a problem. Okay, I fixed the problem. This is what I get. So you look at this, I told him that this was an automata. We knew for the fact that what is that Amara has supposed to look is, goes down, goes down. What this looks like? Does it look like the auto regress, the partial integration of ARMA model? Or, if I didn't tell you, Susana, what would you say? Remember, which one has the one that decay and then this is the auto recursive function and the partial, actually the absolute vessel as this that goes down, and this that jumps to zero, that's okay, you get. Enable it. So technically, to me, it looks more like I will set autographs for one of the two. Now, of course, Coada says I. Coada says, I know that this is number one. I'm going to estimate an alpha, okay, this is what estimates. If I see this, why I'm not so sure I have this is not significant. Everything else is okay. So the first group is actually small. So one option could have done is if I didn't ask, if I didn't know that this was not my model, I probably done, honestly, I would have done a movie, a auto regressive over the one if I do nothing. Why? Because this is the k and this is as one on the bigger so that would have been my, my, my first guess. Let's see what we get. If I do that, I have, okay, I have one coefficient that is significant. So it's not bad. I don't have an r squared here to know where we are, but I know that AIC and BIC are 1384, and 1397, at this point, if I knew how to do it quickly on Python, I will say, let's graph the let's grab their zeros, but we'll do that next time. So okay, this is an option. Another option would be, what if I go here to doesn't really buy me much, right? 13861403, 61403, why does not bind me much? Why is this going up? Because I, yeah, I have added one additional regressor, and this regressor really does not explain much, because it's nothing. So let's go back to where I want, but maybe I forgot something, so let me add a moving average. Maybe the zero will show me that there is still zero correlation. This. Does it help? Not much. Basically, nothing, right? This is Arma one, one. And part is moving out. Here is nothing different. Would I go to two? One? Maybe, maybe I can now what do I get to two gives me one, three and five. How? One, I'm getting worse, right? So let's try two. One. Why? Well, because I have, this is a significant but I actually probably, honestly, now, if I without having the result, I don't know if I will ever get here, which is the interesting part, right? Sometimes you have to fish around that is 1383 and 1404, now you tell me which model is better, if I only based on the information criteria, and I look here, this is the best model, but if I look at DIC, this is the best model yet. What is the true model? Because this exercise, I actually even know where it is, is this? What's so happened that probably this is a good enough approximation, even for this one you. To say is not a single formula questions, yeah, yeah, just do like you do Python regression. That may make you better. Yeah, it may, because if you drop this one, it may be that this will, this will actually, we don't have trend in here, so you didn't have a linear regression. You still, this is the same regression. You just add. This is an automatic but it's the same regression with equal errors. It's a linear regression with yt, yt minus one, epsilon, T and epsilon, you still call even if this is equal to zero, it's still called an ARMA to one. Now let's look at in the minister, let's look at the real data. Okay, so I told a Coada coil, find me some real data, download it from the internet. I don't care which data it is. I um, so I didn't know what it did. What did it do? Why did he simulate it? I have no idea. I didn't know. This is, I didn't check, okay, so, but this is the, this is an employment, okay, so, so, okay. He goes get data from crab, and he finds an appointment from 2000 to 2024 and obviously this should be monthly data, okay? And this is how it looks like, including this big spike for covid. Now here is what automatically did he check for stationarity. We don't know what we don't know. We don't know how to do like this, in the sense that we will learn, but right now, not so ignore this, but then it does know that it appears to be stationary, questionable clouds. There's so many people discussing this, but okay, and it does the autochlorogram and the function so partial Why would you do that? AI could be the choice. Probably be my first choice as well. And this is, in fact, represent the, if this is truly air one, this is actually the root of the Air One. So instead of point nine, eight, and I was like, oh, it's previous nation. Let's try this. Oh, see, that's only that. Okay, so if I do it a on one, it tells me that I have that coefficient that everyone is 0.95 unemployment is very persistent. Very, very persistent. And now here you have to start thinking about it. What do you want? Air two out of the second bag, barely significant. This is not bad, right? Significant. Then maybe I can add a moving average. Doesn't help to go, you have to keep track of this. That's the help. Look, this is now, this is significant, but this is not significant. So now you have to make a choice, which one of the two you prefer, right? And then you can go on like, This is that? What if I do ar three, right? This is not a single This is not science. So you have to give now this is not significant. So now this is barely significant. This is not bad. I would, I would not touch this. This is, this is this is still. So close as a p value, I will not touch it. So maybe let's try four and so forth. Then you can keep going until you find something that you feel is the right thing. Now when I add four, this is clearly nothing, so probably stop. So I would say three, and then I was like, why is better than the moving average step. I highly recommend that you do the ralogram of the residuals for that step. So final, 9617, I finite sequences actually this is, this is such smaller, right? So y is actually smaller. So let's see plot one of this. I this anyway, so you just have to keep working find out. Let's look at another one. GDP growth rate have this is how it looks. So he found 1990 to 2024 converted. So he does the quarterly growth rate. So and then it was, it and this is what we have seen. It's a little bit different, something different than what I don't know why. It looks very different to the one that I had before. I would have to go check remember the mine will look different. But this is like, I know why it happened, because my data was went back in time, so mine was open to the pre 1984 this is only past 1984 so we don't see the change in the variance of GDP growth, but we see covid. What was 1984 called, again, the Great Moderation. And now, if I do this right, this is the now, this is GDP growth. What do you think? Where would you start? Right? He says, heir to one. I don't know that would be my obvious choice. I would probably go with the ARMA one, one, and it works. So if I do a air, air one, I know what this is. And okay, so this is a, this is an interesting thing. If you guys want to know what's going on. Electricity. This is what looking at. This is all the things that you learn if I have this. This is, this is my Arma. One, one there. I can write this like this, one minus rho l y t is equal one plus theta l absolute. Now let's assume that rho is 0.3 and theta is equal to minus 0.3 What do you think happens now is not you don't see this here. This is exactly what's happened. This is one minus 0.3 l, y, t, and this is one minus l, XT, epsilon, T, this is an equation. This cancel out in the sense that I can divide everything by, say, zero point, so yt, so I have one minus zero point. L, so what I write is, is yt is one minus so when these two are so similar. The things go, why? Why? So this is all happening in a sense, because when I have both of them, he ends up in that neither one looks significant. They still things go crazy. They cancel each other out. But if I only give them one of them, so just because before me, the water was significant, does that mean that taken singularly are not significant? No, and that's why you always have to be careful about eliminating two variables at the same time, because it may simply be that their effect canceled. In a sense, they're so similar, they are capturing the same effect. It's almost like having closed multicolinearity in the linear regression. They cancel each other out. So if you take them off both you will think that nothing is relevant. But when you take only one out, the other one becomes very similar. This is exactly what's here the moment I took one out, this one became significant. Just be careful. Play around with the data slowly and look at it and again here, I don't know, two is not significant. So actually, this is not a bad model for simple, sweet, last one that's super fun. We have four minutes inflation rate. This is how it looks like the red one is the target percent. Now we do the corellogram. We get something like this. What will you do? You What would we do? Starting point, yeah, which number? 12121, experience. Now, you could say, Oh, what about this one? This one, I will compare this one cost me something. I will be, I'll be thinking about that, not for now, but I would have to, let's model this first, and then we and then I will think about it. But for example, we'll see in the data that we going to look next week. If I have, if I had seasonality here, and I completely forgot that I had it, you will see a peak every 12 because you're not okay to do account that there is something that happened. So in this case, I would also say this is 1514, five, three is a good choice. Starting Point is a good choice. Maybe not. Because you have the one see that the extra moving average apart was making everything did you notice and make everything else significant? So if is the reason why we're not doing AR for because that fourth little mark on the Corolla gram is close enough to them, yeah, but it's so close this. You're right. I probably this would be a good point to start. And then you see, okay, the fourth one is a little bit. I'll stop. I'll take it out. But you're right. You're so close. That when I had the movie now, so this is like, this is where it becomes open. But you notice that the three, two variable that I had, real variable that I had, they were basically all and that's why it's that's probably one reality. Most things, most almost everything, needs at least one lag. So is at least AR one, maybe sometimes more than one. Occasionally you will need a moving average in there, one, maybe just. 

