And we haven't learned about economic theory yet, we're going to be able to do incredible forecasts. So we're going to start in reverse for a second. The ultimate goal is going to be, you want to see a series, and you want to decide what Arma auto regressive or moving average combinational to model could best fit this data. Before we get there, we're going to do a reverse and we're going to look at a few moving average in ARMA models to try to understand how they look, how they behave, so that then we can learn from that. And we're going to start with the most simple one, epsilon d is a white noise, zero sigma squared, then we have a model. The easiest model is a moving average model. Moving Average is called Moving Average because it's an average of these white noises. Okay? So in this case, I have epsilon t now, and epsilon is last month or last quarter, and then we have a mean. This is a moving edge of order one. If I have two legs, is order two. If I have two legs, I over. You remember that what we saw last time, I think we did last time, the world theorem. We mentioned it was a little bit rushed, but we said that the world theorem says that any stationary time series can be represented by an infinite sum of white noises if resist. So in this case where I almost said, Okay, I know that if yt is stationary, it's going to be I know for a fact that, theoretically, I cannot present with an infinite number of infinite number of legs. But now I say, Okay, I cannot estimate an infinite number. What if I stop at a certain point? Is that enough? Hopefully, if this or this number decay off fast enough, if this correlation decay is fast enough, I can stop at a finite number. So the first question that we're going to ask is, so let me show you. You know how a moving Archer looks like. This isn't moving out. I just simulated this data. This is a moving average of order one, that is a moving average of order two. They look pretty random, right? Could you able to say, look in this with the neck and egg nine, and say, Is this completely? Is it a white noise, or larger, more than one? It's actually very hard. You can see it a little bit more when it's two, you see that there's like a little bit of cycles, right? But a moving larger is just a little bit random, yet there is information that we can exploit. The forecast and model. If I if I graph the out of the relation, functional, movement, average, it looks like this. This is a border one. This is the order two. What do we see here is like you have the first resolution one, and at one is some number, and then a 345, is always zero. When I have a more natural order two, I have two numbers. This is right on the verge that are a little bit and everything else is this. Now we're going to see the math of why that is the case. Okay, let's start with moving under order one. Then we can easily generalize. What is the expectation of YT? What is it the expectation of et plus the expectation of theta et minus one? And what about this? Does that go to zero? No, remember, the expectation of a constant is what the constant the constant. So if I take expectation of this, I mean the expectation of mu plus epsilon t plus theta, epsilon t minus one, you're right that this is going to be the expectation of mu plus the expectation epsilon t plus theta, the expectation of epsilon t minus one. So what is this equal to the. This is mu, what is this? What is this? Would that just be theta? It's theta, times oh, times zero, times zero. Yeah. So what am I left with? Just the mu? What now let's go to the variance of YT. What is the variance? Remember that by definition, is the expectation of yt minus is mean, so mu squared, so what am I left with? I have this minus. This is epsilon t plus theta. Epsilon t minus one squared. What is that equal to? That would just be zero and zero, no zero, because I have the square. Yeah right. Is the expectation of what epsilon t squared plus theta squared, epsilon t minus one squared, remember, just do all the calculation if we doubt you. Two. Okay. Now what I have, this is just a standard. I have e of epsilon t squared plus theta squared is a constant, so I can figure out the expectation, expectation of epsilon t minus one squared plus two theta times E of epsilon t, epsilon t minus one. Now what is the simple? What is e of x, t squared? Remember that I have the variance of epsilon t is sigma squared. I don't know if you remember this from statistic, but the variance can always be written as expectation of epsilon t squared minus the expectation of epsilon t squared. So squared. This is from statistic, and this is very useful to know, so keep remember this. Now, what is the expectation epsilon t so epsilon t squared is equal to the variance for this particular case. Every time you have something that has mean zero, the expectation of the squared is the variance. So here I have sigma squared plus the expectation, epsilon t minus one squared is also the variance I have theta squared, sigma squared, plus what is this? Yes. Why that is correct. Why do you think so? Yes, because epsilon t is a y noise, what does it means that epsilon t is uncorrelated with epsilon t minus one, so this is equal to zero. So you have that the variance of y T is one plus theta squared, sigma squared. So I should go right in, right there questions, why did they expect about it? Sometimes remember epsilon. T is a stationary, sorry, stay the same no matter what T everybody with me? Okay, number two is done. Now, let's go to number three. Can I raise this? You want me to write a lab board when there is more space? Yeah, I think so. You guys, turn around you now we want the output variance of order one, which I denote with gamma one by definition or to Coada, This expectation of yt minus mu times yt minus one minus mu. Now you just have to, this is all an expectation. So you just have to write it all out and work the expectation through like we just need. So, what is so? This is, what is yt minus mu. Well, this is epsilon d plus theta, epsilon t minus one. What is yt minus one? Well, if I write this, this is an equation, I can always write it like this. Sorry. I All right, just equation. T is just timing, so I can always write so now, oh and mu. So what is y given as one minus mu, then that's going to be the same thing. Just land one, epsilon t minus one plus theta, epsilon t minus two. This is, yeah, now just have to multiply and work out the expectation so I have epsilon t, epsilon d minus one plus epsilon t minus one squared plus theta. Epsilon t, epsilon t minus two plus theta squared epsilon d minus one, epsilon d minus two. You okay, and now I just have to carry the expectation. What is the expectation of this one? You told me I told me earlier that is still zero, right? Every time I have an expectation of a product and the two things have a different timing, that's going to be zero if this is a white noise. So this is zero. What about this? Well, this is, this is not the same is the same time. So I have theta time, the expectation of epsilon t minus one squared, and we know that we just said before that this is sigma squared. What about this call? Everything, also for the same zero and what about this one? Yeah, so I'm left with just this. So gamma one is theta prime, sigma, square. I now, if I want the there's many ways right, let's say like this, or autocorrelation function of order one. Remember what the definition is of autocorrelation function is the auto covariance of order one divided by the variance. So it's going to be theta times sigma squared divided by, we said it was one plus theta squared sigma square. So it's theta divided by one plus theta squared the. So for example, if my model was something like yt is equal to three plus 0.4 epsilon epsilon t plus 0.4 epsilon t minus one. You can see that the value of the mean actually does not matter for the autocorrelation right? It doesn't show up in here, but this will be 0.4 divided one, one plus one, 0.4 squared, and that's why you see graphed in the autocorrelation function. Wait, got it. Where did we get 0.4 from? I just came up. Oh, okay, okay. Random Number, okay. Just to show you that this parameter will have a value that will translate into some number for the autocorrelation function, got it. Now, that's pretty few things about what happened at two. You guys do it and tell me what you get. So is epsilon t is YT times yt minus two? What is that input? I Yes, right? Because these are all product for things that are now the same time and so what if I did three zero? So now you can see why here. Now it makes sense, right? Because here I'm graphing the output from the moving average. What do we know? The first result is one, the second some value that depends on the value of the theta parameter. And then what happened afterwards? They're all zero. You said, sorry. You said that it's zero because these are all products of things that and then I didn't get what you said timing. So you have excellent t minus one, excellent t minus one, epsilon, 0.3 so all the product got it, and you take expectation. Okay, now what you can do? And I'm not gonna guess this one. Okay, so this is what I'm gonna you can do. You're gonna think it's in the homework, but you can also do it yourself at home, and I encourage you to do it, because it's a good exercise. I think it's on the homework, right? Suppose that now I have a moving average of order two. Okay, now I'm going to speed up a little bit and tell you that the variance of YT is going to be one plus theta one squared plus theta one squared. Plus theta two squared. Now let's look at gamma one. It's going to be the expectation of epsilon t plus theta, epsilon t minus one plus theta two epsilon t minus two times epsilon t minus one plus theta, one, epsilon t minus two plus theta, two, epsilon t minus theta. If you make these calculations now, we have an extra term. Now it's the same calculation, whether you mean, if this is going to be different than zero, it's going to be some number that is a function of theta, one. Now let's look at gamma two, before it was zero. But now, what is gamma two? Now I have this, and it's like twice. You is this zero? No, why? Because the fact that I have this one here, I have one term that is the same timing, and so that's not going to be zero. But what happened if I got three? Two. Now I'm gonna have this and then here epsilon t minus three, epsilon t minus four, epsilon t minus five. Now this one is going to be zero, because here I have epsilon t epsilon t minus one, epsilon t minus two, and here I have three, four and five. So now, I have that product. None of them have the same timing, so you so this points into a nice property of a moving average. Because what do we learn about the moving average? If I look at the autocorrelation function and I plot them, okay? The first result is one. Fine. So and this is the autocorrelation function I'm going to have. It's going to go some spikes that are whatever they are different than zero. How many do I have? Well, it's going to depend on the order. If I had one, it would only be one. If I have a more larger over the two, it will be two, and then they go to zero. Really fast, really, really fast. So this can help us. So, so you can see where the exercise that we're going to do is like, Oh, if I see an autocorrelation that looks like that, where I have a couple of points that are big and then it dropped to zero, I know that it's going to I know that this is probably models like an auto is a moving average model which order, potentially I can look at how many of them are different than Zero against the order. What we didn't do, because it's too complicated, is, if you do the partial to correlation function for a moving average, it's going to be looking like this, even for a moving average order more than one. So I mean, it goes down slowly for a moving average. Okay, this is drop, removing average. The autocorrelation dropped to zero after Q lags, which is q is the order and the partial is going to go down very slowly. You we will see a lot of example, how brain the computer in class next week? Actually, am I like, so busy? Oh, it's still Tuesday. It's not Thursday. I think I drink. Okay, now the question that I have for you is the moving average stationary. What are requirements for being weakly stationary? The mean has to be constant. The mean is constant. The value has to be constant. The variance is constant. Doesn't change with time, and the output covariances are not a function of time, only a function of the order gamma one is this is not it doesn't change with time. Gamma two is die. It doesn't change with time. Two is zero, okay, so a moving average is always stationary. Now it gets a little bit more complicated for stationarity, if you have an infinite number, and we're not going to do this, this is more advanced, but you have to, there is a condition required, which is that the infinite sum of all the possible coefficients have to be bounded, cannot be explored. But this is about the moving average is always stationary. This is less F for alpha knots. Refraction is going to zero, and the partial will go down slowly. Now we're going to look at the others the other side, which is the autographing model. So let me start here and then the calculation. So two. We have a few different model. We have an alteration for the one two over genetic order. What is the order? One is when you have only one, like a yt minus one on the right hand side, the. Order two. I have one and two. And here you can have a mean. I forgot the mean, but that's okay. We saw that the mean is relevant. And how can I write this? A nice way to write this is this? This is very useful. So I have the one I ordered one. We're going to see a lot. So let me start with that. I can write this as one minus is yt minus rho, yt minus one equal to epsilon t, if I use The Log operator, this is one minus rho L, YT equal to epsilon t. Now have this little, nice polynomial of order. How do they look like? This is a outer reverse order, one with rho equal to point five, and then the autocorrelation function of l1 looks like this. Down. This is going to be the trick, and I show you. This shows how when we estimate those things, and things are not as neat as simple as when in theory. Okay, so let's, let's derive it. So this is so this is with the rows point five. This is with the rows point seven. So I add a little bit of more persistence and look at how it changed the now the other correlation is decaying pretty slowly, and if I do point nine, it looks like this, and we're going to calculate. Look at the data itself. Look at this. This is not that different than the moving arms that I showed you before, right? I wouldn't be able to tell the difference in the naked eye. Now here it started to look at the different. Look at this. This looks very different. This the swing are much more obvious. You see the cycle is much more persistent. Okay, these are all auto regressive model. It's just different level of persistent. Different level. Can you go back please? Yeah, to the next one. Next one. Yes, let's look a lot, if you think about it, it's all different than I think unemployment that we sold it up things like that. This really, actually and not generate this data. This is no real data. I made this data, yet it looks very similar to things that we have seen before. I up thinking about what's the best way to do it? Okay, there are many ways to get to the same to the same results. I am going to show you what I think mathematically is the easiest way, but it's not the only way. Okay, so if I go here, so let's take this, and then I'm gonna substitute what is so this also means that Y t minus one is equal to rho y t minus two plus epsilon t minus one, and now you substitute that. So y t is equal to rho times rho y t minus two. Is rho y t minus two plus epsilon t minus one plus epsilon. Okay, so if I write this is epsilon t plus rho, epsilon t minus one plus rho squared Y t minus two now substitute what this is. Can you not just keep substituting forever? Yes, so And you're absolutely right, I can keep going forever. So what do we learn that I can write YT as a sum for j equals zero, infinite overall to. The J, epsilon, t minus J. What is this? What does this look like we saw before? It is a moving average on each order. How many likes will I have? Infinite so I can go from AR one to the moving average, so is that I could go from moving out your order one. So this, this is exactly like this is the same thing. It's two ways to model YT. Now if I ask you, which one would you rather estimate? Would you rather estimate one parameter or infinite parameters? You infinite parameters, really, this is, this is the machine learning, right? Sure you can potentially estimate infinite however, it's a little tricky, because we did it with a fine number of observation. You're going to be forced to set some of this equal to zero. Yeah, you this was lasso does, right? It shrinks sum to zero. So in theory, if you don't have a finite number of observations, you're better off estimating one parameter if you can. If they are exactly the same, you may as well estimate this. When would you not have a finite number of observations, though I would, I will have a finite but I'm saying, when would you not have, okay, that's exactly what I said. Okay. So you said, Sorry, if you have a finite number of observations, then you probably want to estimate this. You want, okay, but what I want you to understand is that there are two alternative specifications of ways to model and why t now, if we end Mathematically, this is easy to estimate, this is a little bit easier to deal with mathematically. Okay, so we're going to compute this using that specification, just because it's a little bit easier to do math. That's why I started the moving average. Moving Average is actually a less intuitive model, but it's easier mathematically. So in this there's a little bit dibrila, so suppose that I have this model. I don't have the mean before this can be written as i If you do the same, everything that we've done before, but you'll have the mu. The mu is gonna end up being in front with like, mu plus row, row, mu press, rho square, mu press, etc. So it's okay, I'm gonna there's not this step. It's not on the slide. So now we want to compute the expectation of YT. I have this expectation here, expectation of this, plus the expectation of this, remember, this is the all epsilon, so the expectation of this is zero. And then I have this is a constant, so is equal to the sum J, equal to zero, infinite rho to the J field. And here you have to remember a little bit of math. Do you guys know was one plus rho plus rho, square plus rho to the third plus. You know what this infinite sum equal to? No, I don't that's fair. So if rho is less than one, i. This is one over one minus rho times mu. I call mu, and that's C. I have different notation there, so mention that C is my mu. Okay, so I have this though. So if this is less than one, this is going to come is a sum, the mathematical is going to converge to a number that is this number. So So another way to see it, I'm trying to say so suppose I take this one, rho, E, yt minus one plus e of epsilon, t. So this is mu Well, let's now do this because that's confusing. Otherwise, I'm using different notations so us. I'm using different notations, okay, but this is to say that the mean of y is going to be a number that is finite only if this rho is less than one. And this is a key, important step. This is going to be an assumption that we're going to have to make a lot, because if rho is not less than one, this summation, infinite summation, is going to explode, right? If I sum one plus one plus two plus one, this is going to explode. So this is a condition that allows the mean to define it, and is something that we're going to see over now, if I again take that, what is the variance of YT remember is E. Of yt minus is mean. What is left is E. Of epsilon t plus rho, epsilon t minus one plus rho squared epsilon t minus one plus one. And I have an infinite number of them squared, because it we just did, because now I have a moving average of infinite order. It's the same exercise we did before. And just now we have a lot of them in the coefficient instead of theta one, theta two are rho, respectable to the cube root to the fourth. What is sigma two? We have sigma squared plus now we have to be careful, because it's squared. So I have rho squared sigma squared plus rho to the fourth, sigma squared plus rho to the sixth, sigma squared plus this is one plus rho squared plus rho to the fourth plus rho to the sixth, etc, sigma squared i. This is also an infinite sum of something, and if rho is less than one, also rho squared is less than one. So this is one over one minus rho squared. B, where did the you come from? Sorry, you're right. So much quicker. Okay, last thing we need. I'm going to delete this because I need the space I'm. So let's do gamma one very I take a shortcut there. So what is it? So this expectation of epsilon t plus rho, epsilon t minus one plus rho square epsilon t minus two plus blah, blah, blah times the same thing like one or is this equal to you? Have a bunch of term that goes to zero, right because epsilon t and epsilon t minus zero, epsilon t and epsilon t minus two zero, epsilon t and epsilon t minus three zero. Then I go to here. They're all zeroed, except to one, which is this. I one, and then this one, all the ones that have the same timing, and those are everything else is zero, it turns out. And it's not important that you know how you get there. But this is rho divided by one minus rho squared, sigma squared, if you remember that the variance of what D was one over one minus of squared sigma squared, what is the autocorrelation of order one is rho divided by one minus rho squared sigma squared divided by one divided one minus rho, square, sigma squared. So what I'm left with rho. This is a lot of math, I know, but you don't have to necessarily be able to replicate all of it. If I do two is going to be equal to rho squared, divided one minus rho square, sigma squared, and you can do it yourself. It's just a question, a lot of math, and knowing that this some infinite summation converge. So I have that the rho squared the autocorrelation, where the two is equal to rho squared over the three is equal to rho to the third and so forth. So when I plotted the autocorrelation function, I'm going to have one and a one is going to be is equal to rho, a two is going to be equal to rho. So this is row this is row square. Three is going to be equal to row cube four, row to the fourth and so forth. So if rho is less than one, you know that this is going to rho. Square is going to smaller than rho, rho to the cube is going to be smaller than rho, and so forth. So this is going to go down slowly. So what do we say before that, in the moving average, the partial autocorrelation was going down slowly. Now the autocorrelation function is the autocorrelation function that goes down slowly. Now, don't be fooled at this. If rho is negative, is going to look like this, because actually, if it's negative, is going to go negative, then square is going to be positive, and then it's going to be negative, and then going to be positive, going to be negative, positive, negative, positive. This is still going down. Adjust that because it's negative, it's going to flip between positive and negative. We'll see examples of this. We're okay, function now slowly decreases because so the other relation slowly decreases, and I show you this graph. Now this is just saying that if rho is it may look like that, but if rho is negative, it's going to end up looking like this is still going down. Excellent question, the partial autocorrelation function, which I'm not going to show you, because it's even more painful math. It does exactly the opposite. It's going to be. It, no, it goes down to zero really fast. And the same way the moving average. Remember, the moving average had two for moving average or two, you have two autocorrelation different than zero, and then zero. Is there a verse here, the partial it behaves the same way as two big ones or one or two or two or three, depending on the order of the autocorrelation function, and then drop to zero. Yes, and you can see that they have similar behavior, but they're opposite on how the autocorrelation departure correlation function behave. Yes. Good question. So an ARMA model, for example, would be something like this, YT equal to mu plus a rho, yt minus one plus epsilon t plus theta. Epsilon t minus one. This will be an ARMA you Arma one, one, you have one leg of the autoregressive part and one leg of the large part. Now let's think about how would the autocorrelation function looks like? It was equal to one? I would have one, A, one will be row one, a, two will be pro squared, which is one square, which is one, a, three will be one. It would never go down this robot one is a very tricky spot, because we're going to talk about what is an immune response function, and if this means that a shock today will never die, ever, and that's at least. So we're going to talk a lot about, is rho equal to one or less than one? We never think about rho being bigger than one. But is, if the model is an autoregressive model, is the root, is called the root, is that coefficient less than one, because being less than one is the key component for being stationary. Because look at here, we can look at here, what happened is like, so the mean, so it's this stationary, the mean is constant. Okay, fine. What happened to the variance? Okay, the variance is constant, well, what happens if rho is equal to one, it would turn into zero, and then it would not be valid, so it would explode. So that is something really weird. So when rho is equal to one, is modeling mostly, if row is bigger than one, then the amount is called explosive, which most micro don't have. There's some situation. So we'll pick up from here. And it's just a few slides, and I don't need to, I don't want you to know all the details, but I think the math is important to understand where they come from. And then we'll, we'll talk, you know, we'll do some example in class. Next slide, you hmm, that's mine. Sorry, who. 

